SUBMISSION COMMUNICATION ID: ES2208-db3ca280

ACTION TYPE: Modification

SUBMISSION STATUS: Init-Consultation

AFFECTED CWES: 

ORIGIN: sub-server

SUBMISSION DATE: 2022-08-22 21:00:49

ISSUES: yes/active

ISSUE DETAILS: SUB.ABS.LOWLEVEL, SUB.OVERLAP, SUB.MISC

PUBTRACKER: #14

MTRACKER: #631

GITHUBUSER: justinengland

SUBMISSION TYPE: Software

NAME: Chia Blockchain CAT1 inflation bug

DESCRIPTION:

A coin is represented by a variable length structure of the form
`(parent_coin_id puzzle_hash amount)` where the first two fields are 32
bytes, and the last is a `clvm varint` type.

varint examples:

0 = "" (the empty string)

1 = 0x01

50 = 0x32

20000 = 0x4e20

65000 = 0x00fde8 because a varint supports negative values, we prefix
numbers that would otherwise have the high bit set with a 00 byte

The solution to a CAT1 puzzle takes a triple of three values for the coin
the puzzle is included in. It adds a condition `(ASSERT_MY_ID v)` where v
is the calculated coin id using these values via `(sha256 parent_coin_id
puzzle_hash amount)`. It further uses the amount value to ensure mojos are
neither created nor burned (except when authorized by the tail).

The problem is that sha256 concatenates the passed values when evaluating,
and at no time do we ensure that parent_coin_id or puzzle_hash is 32 bytes
as expected (or verified to be correct by any other means). That means the
boundary between puzzle_hash and amount can be varied, changing the
perceived amount of the coin.

So slide over the last byte or two of the puzzle_hash to be the new
first byte or two of amount, and you’ve just created a coin worth much
more (or, if the first byte has the high bit set, a negative amount!).

This also gives us an easy way to melt CAT coins: move the boundary
all the way to the right, so the puzzle_hash field contains all the
bytes from the actual puzzle_hash field and the amount field, so the
amount field appears to be the empty string, which represents 0.


RELATED WEAKNESSES:

  Other CWE-130
  Other CWE-135


REFERENCES:

Title: Chia Blog
URL: https://www.chia.net/2022/07/29/cat1-vulnerability-explained-cve-and-cwe.en.html



ACTIVE ISSUES:


SUB.OVERLAP - "Duplicate/Overlap"

Description: The submission identifies a weakness, but it is a duplicate of
(or partially overlaps) existing weaknesses, indicating problems with the
submission or associated CWE entries.

Resolution: The submission cannot progress to later phases until (1) the
duplicate/overlap is understood and (2) it is clear how to resolve this
duplicate/overlap.

Comments: Some CWEs exist that focus on the issue of length not being
checked - CWE-130 and CWE-135.  Therefore, this doesn't warrant a new
CWE, but certainly can be used to provide a demonstrative example for
those CWEs.

Response: We want to stress that while the linked issues are
similar. this issue is explicitly for our custom on chain programming
language and related to on chain assets with real world value. The
CAT1 (Chia Asset Token 1) standard which this CWE is for, has a
specific weakness that was patched when we replaced it with the CAT2
(Chia Asset Token 2) standard.  We propose the following changes to
the document to reflect a more abstract weakness definition and
provide a specific exploit as an example.

---
DESCRIPTION

The software does not verify the length of individual elements
contatenated together as input for a hash function.

---
EXTENDED DESCRIPTION

If an attacker can manipulate the length of input data fields
concatenated together as input to a hash function such that it is
inconsistent with the expected length of the inputs in a manner that
shifts the boundaries between different data fields, this can be
leveraged to cause the target application to behave in unexpected, and
possibly, malicious ways.

One of the possible motives for doing so is to pass a hash output
comparisonson validation, with input data fields that are different
from input data fields that originally resulted in the hash output.

---
DEMONSTRATIVE EXAMPLES

A coin is represented by a variable length structure of the form
`(parent_coin_id puzzle_hash amount)` where the first two fields are 32
bytes, and the last is a `clvm varint` type.

varint examples:

0 = "" (the empty string)

1 = 0x01

50 = 0x32

20000 = 0x4e20

65000 = 0x00fde8 because a varint supports negative values, we prefix
numbers that would otherwise have the high bit set with a 00 byte

The solution to a CAT1 puzzle takes a triple of three values for the coin
the puzzle is included in. It adds a condition `(ASSERT_MY_ID v)` where v
is the calculated coin id using these values via `(sha256 parent_coin_id
puzzle_hash amount)`. It further uses the amount value to ensure mojos are
neither created nor burned (except when authorized by the tail).

The problem is that sha256 concatenates the passed values when evaluating,
and at no time do we ensure that parent_coin_id or puzzle_hash is 32 bytes
as expected (or verified to be correct by any other means). That means the
boundary between puzzle_hash and amount can be varied, changing the
perceived amount of the coin.

So slide over the last byte or two of the puzzle_hash to be the new
first byte or two of amount, and you've just created a coin worth much
more (or, if the first byte has the high bit set, a negative amount!).

This also gives us an easy way to melt CAT coins: move the boundary
all the way to the right, so the puzzle_hash field contains all the
bytes from the actual puzzle_hash field and the amount field, so the
amount field appears to be the empty string, which represents 0.


 

----------

SUB.ABS.LOWLEVEL - "Low level of abstraction"

Description: The submission identifies an issue, but its abstraction might
be too low-level to merit its own CWE entry. If it is focused on a
particular technology, framework, protocol, or function, then it might not
be unique enough to get its own CWE ID.  This might lead to modification of
an existing entry to include the additional details, or creation of a
higher-level entry for which the submission is one example. (Note: some
older CWE entries have this problem and would not be published today,
generally because they were too specific to a particular language.)

Resolution: The submission will be allowed to progress to later phases once
the more-general concept is appropriately identified and described. The
original, lower-level submission will serve as a primary example of the
more general concept.

Comments: This aligns because the submission focuses on blockchain as
the technology where creation/deletion of coins are concerned. This
means it is better suited as a demonstrative example under one of the
current CWEs.

Response: added a higher level description in the previous response

----------

SUB.MISC - "Miscellaneous/other problem"

Description: The submission has some other problem that is not covered
elsewhere.

Resolution: This will depend on the nature of the problem.

Comments: This is not a problem for the requester, but the notion of
"not enforcing proper boundaries between different data fields" could
potentially produce a new CWE entry, but that does not need to prevent
this submission from moving forward. The CWE Team has noted the
possibility of including this example in that new entry.

Response: Thanks for the feedback. please let me know if you have
further questions.




RESOLVED ISSUES:






TIMELINE:

Received: 2022-08-22

Ack-Receipt: 2022-08-29

Init-Review: 2022-11-01

Init-Consultation: 2023-01-06

Init-Declined: YYYY-MM-DD

Init-Accepted: YYYY-MM-DD

Det-Requested: YYYY-MM-DD

Full-Sub-Received: YYYY-MM-DD

Full-Review: YYYY-MM-DD

Full-Consultation: YYYY-MM-DD

Full-Accepted: YYYY-MM-DD

Production: YYYY-MM-DD

Final-Coord: YYYY-MM-DD

CWE-Assigned: YYYY-MM-DD

CWE-Modified: YYYY-MM-DD

CWE-Published: YYYY-MM-DD

Post-Publication: YYYY-MM-DD

Closed: YYYY-MM-DD


COMMUNICATIONS LOG:
2022-08-29 sent email
2022-10-28 received email
2022-11-01 sent email
2022-11-01 sent email
2022-11-08 received email
2022-11-08 sent email
2023-01-06 sent email
2023-01-18 received email
2023-09-12 publish server
