SUBMISSION COMMUNICATION ID: ES2205-11c3755f

ACTION TYPE: New Entry

SUBMISSION STATUS: Init-Consultation

AFFECTED CWES: 

ORIGIN: sub-server

SUBMISSION DATE: 2022-05-27 18:08:03

ISSUES: yes/active

ISSUE DETAILS: SUB.UNCLEAR, SUB.ATTACK, SUB.ABS.SUBTREE, SUB.ABS.LOWLEVEL, SUB.RELS, SUB.MISC, SUB.GRAMMAR, SCOPE.SITUATIONS

PUBTRACKER: #26

MTRACKER: #565

GITHUBUSER: kurtseifried

SUBMISSION TYPE: Software

NAME: Concurrent election voting token locking attack

DESCRIPTION: 

Blockchains and smart contracts that allow multiple concurrent votes
to take place and use token locking to attach tokens and take them out
of circulation are vulnerable to token locking attacks. If an attacker
can create an initial election and then a second concurrent election
the attacker can entice users of the system to vote in the first
election, locking their tokens in, making them unavailable to vote in
the second election until the first election ends.


RELATED WEAKNESSES:

     Other CWE-667



REFERENCES:

Title: Voting Options in DAOs

URL: https://medium.com/daostack/voting-options-in-daos-b86e5c69a3e3


ACTIVE ISSUES:


SUB.UNCLEAR - "Unclear weakness"

Description: The submission's name and/or description does not clearly
identify a weakness, or it is written in a way that is vague and could
cause the submission to be incorrectly mapped to.

Resolution: A submission cannot progress past the consultation phase until
SUB.UNCLEAR is addressed.

Comment: after 2022-08-30 modifications, it is still unclear what the
specific mistake is. Is it that multiple elections are allowed to
occur simultaneously? Or is there some (unstated) weakness that allows
concurrent elections to occur in the first place?  Neither option is
spelled out as a specific mistake. See SUB.ATTACK commentary.

Response: <SUBMITTER SHOULD REPLY HERE>

----------

SUB.ATTACK - "Too attack-focused"

Description: The submission's name and/or description emphasizes the
attack, not the weakness. Either the submission's weakness is not
well-understood, or it is better described as an attack pattern, which may
be suitable for inclusion in CAPEC.

Resolution: An initial submission cannot progress to later phases unless it
also includes a clear weakness (i.e., is not subject to SUB.UNCLEAR).

Comments: the new name and description (submitted 2022-08-30) are still
attack focused, as indicated by the use of the word "attack." Both
name and description say "attack". Desc says "if an attacker can
create a second election... the attacker can create an initial
election."  However, this is a precondition for a vulnerability. There
is still no indication of the mistake that makes the technology
subject to "token locking attacks". If the weakness cannot be
identified, consider submitting this issue to CAPEC.

Response: <SUBMITTER SHOULD REPLY HERE>

----------

SUB.ABS.SUBTREE - "Potential subtree issue/gap"

Description: The submission might identify an issue for which there could
be a broader gap or organizational challenge that requires analysis of CWE
subtree relationships under Research View 1000, in ways that extend beyond
creation of a parent at the next-highest level of abstraction.

Resolution: The submission cannot progress past the consultation phase
(whether initial or detailed) unless it is at an acceptable level of
abstraction, and the subtree issue(s) can be resolved or addressed
independently.

Comments: Suspected issue, awaiting resolution of SUB.UNCLEAR. See
SUB.ABS.LOWLEVEL.

Response: <not necessary until SUB.UNCLEAR is resolved>


----------

SUB.ABS.LOWLEVEL - "Low level of abstraction"

Description: The submission identifies an issue, but its abstraction might
be too low-level to merit its own CWE entry. If it is focused on a
particular technology, framework, protocol, or function, then it might not
be unique enough to get its own CWE ID.  This might lead to modification of
an existing entry to include the additional details, or creation of a
higher-level entry for which the submission is one example. (Note: some
older CWE entries have this problem and would not be published today,
generally because they were too specific to a particular language.)

Resolution: The submission will be allowed to progress to later phases once
the more-general concept is appropriately identified and described. The
original, lower-level submission will serve as a primary example of the
more general concept.

Comments: Due to SUB.UNCLEAR, this issue is uncertain. The desc is
focused on "blockchains and smart contracts" although the name
references "voting". Maybe there is a broader range of technologies or
frameworks to which this attack or weakness applies.

Response: <not necessary until SUB.UNCLEAR is resolved>


----------

SUB.RELS - "Unclear relationships"

Description: The submission suggests some relationships, but the
name/description is not explained in a way in which the relationship is
relevant; or, the weakness is apparent, but it is not clear what the best
parent/child relationship(s) would be.

Resolution: The submission cannot progress to the next phase if SUB.UNCLEAR
is present. It can progress to other phases if the CWE Team agrees that the
potential relationships may require closer investigation.  The submission
cannot progress to the Publication stage until clear relationships and
direct parents are identified. The CWE Team may decide to use high-level
relationships (e.g., to Pillars) if deeper problems such as SUB.ABS.SUBTREE
exist and cannot be quickly resolved.

Comments: Relationships still remain unclear until name/desc are
updated.

Response: <not necessary until SUB.UNCLEAR is resolved>


----------

SUB.MISC - "Miscellaneous/other problem"

Description: The submission has some other problem that is not covered
elsewhere.

Resolution: This will depend on the nature of the problem.

Comments: 2022-08-30 modification to name/desc does not address the
following concern as originally included in the request for
consultation on 2022-07-12: provided reference mentions DAOs and
"quorum voting" but neither phrase is included in desc/name. This
might provide the clarity needed for SUB.UNCLEAR. Also might provide
suggestions for SUB.ABS.LOWLEVEL.

Response: <SUBMITTER SHOULD REPLY HERE>



----------

SUB.GRAMMAR - "Grammar/Spelling issues"

Description: The submission has multiple occurrences of errors with
grammar, spelling, etc. that must be fixed before the Publication stage.

Resolution: The submission will not be allowed to progress to later phases
if the grammar or spelling problems are so significant that they are likely
to cause difficulty for readers to understand the weakness. If the issues
are minor, then the submission could progress.	However, no submission can
move to the Publication stage without grammar and spelling checks. American
English is used for spelling.

Comments: grammar issues resolved in 2022-08-30 update. This problem
will remain active until a clear weakness is identified.

Response: <not necessary until SUB.UNCLEAR is resolved>

----------

SCOPE.SITUATIONS - "Focus on situations in which weaknesses may appear"

Description: The submission focuses on conditions or situations in which
weaknesses are more likely to appear but are outside of the direct control
of the product.

Resolution: Submissions are likely to be rejected unless they can be recast
as categories or can influence modes of introduction of existing CWEs,
i.e., modify entries.

Comments: possibly a result of attack-focused nature of current
name/desc.

Response: <not necessary until SUB.UNCLEAR is resolved>


RESOLVED ISSUES:

SCOPE.NOTREAL - "not a real-world issue"

Description: The issue has not happened
and cannot happen within real-world software or other electronic
logic, and/or has no actual security implications.

Comments: despite the controversy of some implementations of
blockchain-based technologies, "blockchain" and "smart contracts"
constitute software/electronic logic, and the real-world financial
implications are frequently cited as part of the controversy.
Therefore, this submission is not subject to SCOPE.NOTREAL.

----------

SCOPE.CUSTREL - "not customer-relevant"

Description: The issue is not relevant to the
threat model or security concerns of the product's owner/operator
(i.e., the customer).

Comments: financial impact to users of this technology are well-known,
so related weaknesses or attack patterns are
customer-relevant. Therefore, this submission is not subject to
SCOPE.CUSTREL.



TIMELINE:

Received: 2022-05-27

Ack-Receipt: 2022-06-02

Init-Review: 2022-07-11

Init-Consultation: 2022-07-12

Init-Accepted: YYYY-MM-DD

Init-Declined: YYYY-MM-DD

Det-Requested: YYYY-MM-DD

Det-Received: YYYY-MM-DD

Det-Review: YYYY-MM-DD

Det-Consultation: YYYY-MM-DD

Internal-Update: YYYY-MM-DD

Final-Coord: YYYY-MM-DD

CWE-Assigned: YYYY-MM-DD

CWE-Published: YYYY-MM-DD

Post-Publication: YYYY-MM-DD

Closed: YYYY-MM-DD


COMMUNICATIONS LOG:
2022-06-03 sent email
2022-07-12 sent email
2022-07-19 received email
2022-07-19 sent email
2022-07-21 received email
2022-08-30 received email
2022-10-18 sent email
2023-09-12 publish server
