SUBMISSION COMMUNICATION ID: ES2207-771a1a87

ACTION TYPE: New Entry

SUBMISSION STATUS: Init-Consultation

ORIGIN: sub-server

SUBMISSION DATE: 2022-07-04 05:42:11

ISSUES: yes/active

ISSUE DETAILS: SUB.UNCLEAR, SUB.RELS

PUBTRACKER: #70

MTRACKER: #598

GITHUBUSER: 

SUBMISSION TYPE: Software

NAME: Improper Single Sign On (SSO) Provider Authorization

DESCRIPTION: 

Some website will trust any of their SSO to always be a valid way to
connect to any account.

Giving the right to all their SSO provider without ensuring the user
signup/link their SSO account allow staff at the SSO provider company
or anybody who would find a security issue with one of those provider
to forge their access to the user account.

The website with that weakness will rarely let their user know that
they will blindly trust any SSO to be a valid way to connect to their
system.  So user may not be aware the SSO provider is having direct
access to their account.  In many cases they may not even have an
account with this SSO provider which would mean no binding contract
between the user/sso provider.

The secured flow would be: Ensure the SSO provider has been allowed to
connect to the account either by signing up with this SSO provider or
having a way to link the sso provider to the account after being
signed in.



RELATED WEAKNESSES:

   ChildOf CWE-287


REFERENCES:

Title: Atlassian doesn't give users a way to prevent Apple, Microsoft, Google & Slack to sign in to any accounts

URL: https://bugcrowd.com/disclosures/ff0e1b7e-c7db-42a9-b6c5-cb1d65086090/slack-is-able-to-connect-any-user-to-a-confluence-page-without-even-prompting-anything


ACTIVE ISSUES:

SUB.UNCLEAR - "Unclear weakness"

Description: The submission's name and/or description does not clearly
identify a weakness, or it is written in a way that is vague and could
cause the submission to be incorrectly mapped to.

Resolution: An initial submission (or full submission) cannot progress past
the consultation phase until SUB.UNCLEAR is addressed.

Comments: SUB.UNCLEAR is applied because the way the information is
provided requires additional details to better understand the
underlying weakness. It sounds like the core issue is: "Giving the
right to all their SSO provider without ensuring the user signup/link
their SSO account" and "The website with that weakness will rarely let
their user know that they will blindly trust any SSO to be a valid way
to connect to their system.  So user may not be aware the SSO provider
is having direct access to their account." The name "Improper Single
Sign On Flow" is vague, because "Single Sign On Flow" is a common,
valid behavior. It's not clear if the weakness is giving the rights to
the SSO provider, not ensuring user signup/link their SSO, the website
isn't notifying the user, or something else. Please change the name
and description to better explain the weakness.

Response: the weakness is related to the improper authorization of
Single Sign-On (SSO) providers without explicit user consent, which
can result in security vulnerabilities. The current configuration of
the SSO flow appears to be inherently flawed, and may require
additional verifications to ensure that SSO providers are properly
authorized to connect to the service.

To accurately identify and address the weakness, I agree that it would
be more appropriate to revise the submission name and description to
"Improper SSO Provider Authorization."


----------

SUB.RELS - "Unclear relationships"

Description: The submission suggests some relationships, but the
name/description is not explained in a way in which the relationship is
relevant; or, the weakness is apparent, but it is not clear what the best
parent/child relationship(s) would be.

Resolution: The submission cannot progress to the next phase if SUB.UNCLEAR
is present. It can progress to other phases if the CWE Team agrees that the
potential relationships may require closer investigation.  The submission
cannot progress to the publication stage until clear relationships and
direct parents are identified. The CWE Team may decide to use high-level
relationships (e.g., to Pillars) if deeper problems such as SUB.ABS.SUBTREE
exist and cannot be quickly resolved.

Comments: Although CWE-287 is applicable, further analysis is required
to better understand the weakness, therefore, its connection to the
current CWE hierarchy. However, it is the CWE Team's responsibility to
conduct further analysis, so this issue does not prevent the
submission from advancing to the next phase.

Response: CWE-287 describes weaknesses in authentication mechanisms
that can allow an attacker to gain access to a system or service
without proper authorization.

In this case, if SSO providers are authorized without proper user
consent, it can lead to security vulnerabilities and potentially allow
an attacker to gain access to a user's account without proper
authentication. Therefore, addressing the weakness you described is
important to mitigate the risk of improper authentication and to
ensure that SSO providers are properly authorized before being granted
access to a user's account.



----------

RESOLVED ISSUES:

SUB.RELREFS - "No relevant references"

Description: The submission does not provide relevant references that
explain the weakness, or the relevance is not easily found.

Resolution: The submission is not likely to progress to later phases if
there are no applicable, easily-accessible references. The submitter could
resolve by providing additional details such as a section name and quote
from the reference.  If references still are not available, the CWE Team
may decide to make an exception if no suitable reference is available.

Comments: only 1 reference to Bugcrowd is provided. Is there a better
reference that covers the broader issue, or are other
references/disclosures for other products/services with "excessive SSO
trust" besides Atlassian?

Response: [Redacted Organization] didn't let me disclose, [Redacted
Organization] is currently being assessed.

----------

SUB.ABS.LOWLEVEL - "Low level of abstraction"

Description: The submission identifies an issue, but its abstraction might
be too low-level to merit its own CWE entry. If it is focused on a
particular technology, framework, protocol, or function, then it might not
be unique enough to get its own CWE ID.  This might lead to modification of
an existing entry to include the additional details, or creation of a
higher-level entry for which the submission is one example. (Note: some
older CWE entries have this problem and would not be published today,
generally because they were too specific to a particular language.)

Resolution: The submission will be allowed to progress to later phases once
the more-general concept is appropriately identified and described. The
original, lower-level submission will serve as a primary example of the
more general concept.

Comments: The reference is Atlassian-specific, but neither the
proposed name nor the desc mention Atlassian. Does this more-general
submission apply to other SSO providers?  We prefer more examples
besides Atlassian.

Response: [Redacted Organization] and [Redacted Organization] seem to
have the same issue.




TIMELINE:

Received: 2022-07-04

Ack-Receipt: 2022-07-05

Init-Review: 2023-01-10

Init-Consultation: 2023-03-10

Init-Accepted: YYYY-MM-DD

Init-Rejected: YYYY-MM-DD

Full-Sub-Requested: YYYY-MM-DD

Full-Sub-Received: YYYY-MM-DD

Production: YYYY-MM-DD

Final-Coord: YYYY-MM-DD

CWE-Assigned: YYYY-MM-DD

CWE-Published: YYYY-MM-DD

Post-Publication: YYYY-MM-DD

Closed: YYYY-MM-DD


COMMUNICATIONS LOG:
