SUBMISSION COMMUNICATION ID: ES2206-d46a8c14

ACTION TYPE: New Entry

SUBMISSION STATUS: Init-Consultation

AFFECTED CWES: 

ORIGIN: sub-server

SUBMISSION DATE: 2022-06-22 02:31:54

ISSUES: yes/active

ISSUE DETAILS: SUB.RELS

PUBTRACKER: #21

MTRACKER: #595

GITHUBUSER: kurtseifried

SUBMISSION TYPE: Software

NAME: Lack of reporting attacker initiated creation or modification of account

DESCRIPTION: 

Systems that allow for account creation or modification of an account
involving external identities or accounts (such as an email address,
phone number or social media account) should send a notification or
verification message (such as an email, text or voice message or
message on the social media platform) to notify that identities or
accounts that an account creation or modification event took place
using an external identity or account. Failure to send a notification
or verification message can allow attackers to silently create new
accounts or modify existing ones without users being aware that their
identity is being used or linked to attacker controlled accounts.

This weakness pertains to the absence of abuse reporting mechanisms in
emails that contain links for account creation or modification (e.g.,
password resets). Emails facilitating these actions are a standard
practice in managing user accounts. However, without a direct method
for recipients to report unauthorized or suspicious requests,
attackers can exploit this lack of oversight to initiate unauthorized
account creations or modifications. The presence of an "I did not
request this" link or similar reporting mechanism within such emails
can significantly mitigate the risks by alerting the service provider
to potential abuse, thereby initiating preventive or corrective
actions against unauthorized attempts.


RELATED WEAKNESSES:

   Other CWE-613
   Other ES2206-33c5627d
   Other ES2211-684d4e45

REFERENCES:

Title: New Research Paper: Pre-hijacking Attacks on Web User Accounts
URL: https://msrc-blog.microsoft.com/2022/05/23/pre-hijacking-attacks/

Title: Pre-hijacked accounts: An Empirical Study of Security Failures in User Account Creation on the Web
URL: https://arxiv.org/abs/2205.10174

Title: Experian, You Have Some Explaining to Do
URL: https://krebsonsecurity.com/2022/07/experian-you-have-some-explaining-to-do/


ACTIVE ISSUES:

SUB.RELS - "Unclear relationships"

Description: The submission suggests some relationships, but the
name/description is not explained in a way in which the relationship is
relevant; or, the weakness is apparent, but it is not clear what the best
parent/child relationship(s) would be.

Resolution: The submission cannot progress to the next phase if SUB.UNCLEAR
is present. It can progress to other phases if the CWE Team agrees that the
potential relationships may require closer investigation.  The submission
cannot progress to the Publication stage until clear relationships and
direct parents are identified. The CWE Team may decide to use high-level
relationships (e.g., to Pillars) if deeper problems such as SUB.ABS.SUBTREE
exist and cannot be quickly resolved.

Comments: it is not immediately clear what parent relationships might
be appropriate, possibly forcing subtree modification. The CWE Team
will need to coordinate about this issue.  However, this is not
serious enough to prevent movement to the next phase.

Response: [NO RESPONSE NECESSARY AT THIS TIME] This issue will be
addressed in Stage 2.




RESOLVED ISSUES:

SUB.MITIGATION - "Too mitigation-focused"

Description: The submission's name and/or description emphasizes missing or
incorrect mitigation without clarifying the weakness.

Resolution: The submission cannot progress to later phases unless it also
includes a clear weakness (i.e., is not subject to SUB.UNCLEAR).

Comments: the 2022-08-16 desc says "... should send a notification or
verification message" which is a mitigation. The mistake - i.e., *NOT*
sending a notification - should be front-loaded in the desc and should
emphasize the behavior that contains the error.  Consider: "The
product manages accounts that use important external identity
information (such as an email address, phone number or social media
account), but it does not send a notification or verification to that
identity when an account for that identity is created or
modified. Failure to send a notification or verification message can
allow attackers to silently create new accounts or modify existing
ones without users being aware that their identity is being used or
linked to attacker controlled accounts."

Response: [RESOLVED ISSUE; DO NOT CHANGE]

------

SUB.RELREFS - "No relevant references"

Description: The submission does not provide relevant references that
explain the weakness, or the relevance is not easily found.

Resolution: The submission is not likely to progress to later phases if
there are no applicable, easily-accessible references. The submitter could
resolve by providing additional details such as a section name and quote
from the reference.  If no suitable references can be found, the CWE Team
may decide to make an exception.

Comments: The 2022-08-16 update only added a new link. It did not
address the following issue: it is not immediately clear which
sub-section from the reference(s) are associated with this submission.
These references appear to be focused on attacks. For at least one
reference, please include a sub-section name and/or page number that
highlights this issue, and for each reference, provide a brief quote
of the related material so that CWE analysts can ensure the relevance.

Response: [RESOLVED ISSUE; DO NOT CHANGE] The original concern was
inaccurate, as the Experian article is clearly relevant: "signing up
for new accounts at Experian using the victim’s personal information
and a different email address."

-----

SUB.ATTACK - "Too attack-focused"

Description: The submission's name and/or description emphasizes the
attack, not the weakness. Either the submission's weakness is not
well-understood, or it is better described as an attack pattern, which may
be suitable for inclusion in CAPEC.

Resolution: An initial submission cannot progress to later phases unless it
also includes a clear weakness (i.e., is not subject to SUB.UNCLEAR).

Comments: The name suggested on 2022-08-16 "Lack of reporting attacker
initiated creation or modification of account" explicitly mentions an
attacker, which should not be part of a name. The original name
over-emphasized links.  Consider this name: "Missing Notification of
Change Involving External Identities or Accounts"

Response: <SUBMITTER SHOULD REPLY HERE>



TIMELINE:

Received: 2022-06-22

Ack-Receipt: 2022-07-06

Init-Review: 2022-07-13

Init-Consultation: 2022-07-13

Init-Accepted: YYYY-MM-DD

Init-Declined: YYYY-MM-DD

Det-Requested: YYYY-MM-DD

Det-Received: YYYY-MM-DD

Det-Review: YYYY-MM-DD

Det-Consultation: YYYY-MM-DD

Det-Accepted: YYYY-MM-DD

Internal-Update: YYYY-MM-DD

Final-Coord: YYYY-MM-DD

CWE-Assigned: YYYY-MM-DD

CWE-Modified: YYYY-MM-DD

CWE-Published: YYYY-MM-DD

Post-Publication: YYYY-MM-DD

Closed: YYYY-MM-DD



COMMUNICATIONS LOG:
2022-07-06 sent email
2022-07-13 sent email
2022-08-16 received email
2023-09-12 publish server
2024-02-25 received comment
