
SUBMISSION COMMUNICATION ID: ES2205-ccd1a3d2

ACTION TYPE: New Entry

SUBMISSION STATUS: Init-Consultation

AFFECTED CWES: 

ORIGIN: sub-server

SUBMISSION DATE: 2022-05-17 15:45:34

ISSUES: yes/active

ISSUE DETAILS: SCOPE.HUMANPROC, SCOPE.ADMINERR, SUB.UNCLEAR, SUB.RELS, SUB.ATTACK

PUBTRACKER: #25

MTRACKER: #566

GITHUBUSER: kurtseifried

SUBMISSION TYPE: Software

NAME: Insufficient diversity in key holders

DESCRIPTION: 

Insufficient diversity in key holders can render a system with
multiple keyholders weak. For example if a system is configured to
allow a majority of 9 keys to be used to make a decision there should
be 9 distinct, unique key holders. Having a single key holder with 4
keys for example means the attacker now only needs to compromise two
unique keyholders (4+1) instead of 5 unique key holders. Additional
weaknesses can be introduced if the systems used to secure keys are
stored on a homogenous set of systems.


RELATED WEAKNESSES:

     Other CWE-308


REFERENCES:

Title: RONIN NETWORK - REKT

URL: https://rekt.news/ronin-rekt/

Title: Community Alert: Ronin Validators Compromised

URL: https://roninblockchain.substack.com/p/community-alert-ronin-validators?s=r



ACTIVE ISSUES:

SCOPE.HUMANPROC - "Human/organizational process"

Description: The submission focuses on a problem in a human or
organizational process or policy (e.g., insufficient developer training)
that is not measurable and does not produce concrete artifacts that
identify weaknesses.

Resolution: As of July 2022, such submissions will be rejected (if framed
as "weaknesses") but could help modify existing CWEs for elements such as
modes of introduction.

Comments: this seems to be related to human practices, as opposed to
some weakness within the product itself. Further discussion is needed.

Response: This is a technical issue that has a human aspect of
implementation, for example, if you define a process where 3 out of 5
keys are needed to sign a transaction, then it is implied, but should
also be clearly stated that the keys are not controlled by a single
entity or party as defined by the technical specification (e.g. they
may fall under the control of different people within the same
organization, or they may be required to fall under the control of
different organizations). A related case would be CWE-521: Weak
Password Requirements, which does not specify any technical
limitations but instead leaves it up to humans to decide what is
strong or weak. At some point, many of these security considerations
rely upon human input to decide what is secure and not secure.

----

SCOPE.ADMINERR - "Admin/user error"

Description: The issue focuses on security errors that are made by an admin
or user of the product/service, not the developer or maintainer of the
product/service.

Resolution: Submissions will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis, delayed,
and possibly cited as examples until this exclusion is finalized after
extensive community feedback.

Comments: This submission seems to indicate that the administrators
did not follow expected procedures by ensuring that all keyholders
were unique. It does not seem like a problem in the product/service
itself. Resolution: Submissions will be reviewed on a case-by-case
basis, delayed, and possibly cited as examples until this exclusion is
finalized after extensive community feedback.

Response: This is the same type of admin/user error as in CWE-521:
Weak Password Requirements, where it is up to humans to decide what is
secure and not secure. In our case, it is much simpler to define
security, e.g. “3 out of 5 keys must be used, and all 5 keys must be
under the control of different organizations.”

---------

SUB.UNCLEAR - "Unclear weakness"

Description: The submission's name and/or description does not clearly
identify a weakness, or it is written in a way that is vague and could
cause the submission to be incorrectly mapped to.

Resolution: An initial submission (or full submission) cannot progress past
the consultation phase until SUB.UNCLEAR is addressed.

Comments: "insufficient diversity in key holders" as a name is not
likely to be understandable to most readers. The description does
clarify the issue sufficiently, so the need for improved phrasing will
not prevent this submission from moving to later stages (except
publication). Mention of voting or consensus style problems might be
important.

Response: Weak key control due to insufficient diversity in key holders

----------

SUB.ATTACK - "Too attack-focused"

Description: The submission's name and/or description emphasizes the
attack, not the weakness. Either the submission's weakness is not
well-understood, or it is better described as an attack pattern, which may
be suitable for inclusion in CAPEC.

Resolution: An initial submission cannot progress to later phases unless it
also includes a clear weakness (i.e., is not subject to SUB.UNCLEAR).

Comments: key management is not necessarily well-represented within
CWE.

Response: Systems using multiple encryption keys to sign and or
decrypt data, where multiple keys are needed to conduct transactions,
are vulnerable if multiple keys are under the control of a single
entity. The majority of multiple encryption key systems assume that
key control is distributed among a diverse set of key holders in order
to ensure their security. When a multiple encryption key system is
defined and the administrative boundaries are not sufficiently defined
or enforced (e.g. a single person or organization holds too many keys)
it is possible for an attacker to subvert the multiple key system by
compromising a single key holder or a small subset of multiple key holders.


----

SUB.RELS - "Unclear relationships"

Description: The submission suggests some relationships, but the
name/description is not explained in a way in which the relationship is
relevant; or, the weakness is apparent, but it is not clear what the best
parent/child relationship(s) would be.

Resolution: The submission cannot progress to the next phase if SUB.UNCLEAR
is present. It can progress to other phases if the CWE Team agrees that the
potential relationships may require closer investigation.  The submission
cannot progress to the publication stage until clear relationships and
direct parents are identified. The CWE Team may decide to use high-level
relationships (e.g., to Pillars) if deeper problems such as SUB.ABS.SUBTREE
exist and cannot be quickly resolved.

Comments: as a new kind of voting/consensus-style problem,
relationships to existing CWEs are not immediately clear. This does
not prevent the submission from moving to the next stage.

Response: Agreed, also part of this would be creating and submitting
other new related entries.



RESOLVED ISSUES:

SUB.ABS.MULTWEAK - "Multiple weaknesses". Submission describes or
suggests multiple independent weaknesses that each might deserve a
separate ID.  Resolution: the submission cannot progress to later
stages until the number of relevant weaknesses is identified. If there
are multiple weaknesses, separate names and descriptions are needed.

Comments: The desc says "Additional weaknesses can be introduced" but
this submission is only being focused on the error of "distinct,
unique key holders."

Response: [RESOLVED ISSUE; DO NOT CHANGE]


TIMELINE:

Received: 2022-05-17

Ack-Receipt: 2022-06-02

Init-Review: 2022-07-18

Init-Consultation: 2022-07-18

Init-Accepted: YYYY-MM-DD

Init-Declined: YYYY-MM-DD

Det-Requested: YYYY-MM-DD

Full-Sub-Received: YYYY-MM-DD

Production: YYYY-MM-DD

Final-Coord: YYYY-MM-DD

CWE-Assigned: YYYY-MM-DD

CWE-Published: YYYY-MM-DD

Post-Publication: YYYY-MM-DD

Closed: YYYY-MM-DD



COMMUNICATIONS LOG:
2022-06-03 sent email
2022-07-18 sent email
2022-07-21 received email
2022-11-25 sent email
2022-11-26 received email
2023-09-12 publish server
