SUBMISSION COMMUNICATION ID: ES2305-0e110960

ACTION TYPE: New Entry

SUBMISSION STATUS: Init-Consultation

AFFECTED CWES: 

ORIGIN: sub-server

SUBMISSION DATE: 2023-05-08 18:52:35

ISSUES: yes/active

ISSUE DETAILS: SUB.ABS.LOWLEVEL, SUB.RELS, SUB.ABS.SUBTREE

PUBTRACKER: #59

MTRACKER: #941

GITHUBUSER: renorobert

SUBMISSION TYPE: Software

NAME: Invocation of Elevated Bash Shell Without Privileged Mode From a Setuid Process

DESCRIPTION:

Description
Bash shell is executed with the effective privileges of a setuid process by
setting its real identifiers to
that of the effective identifiers instead of using privileged mode.

Extended Description

When bash shell is started with an effective user identifier not equal
to the real user identifier, bash by default drops privileges by
setting the effective user identifier to the real user identifier. The
same applies to group identifiers. For cases in which it instead
desired to run bash with the higher privileges of the effective user
and group identifiers, bash provides a privileged mode “-p”
option. For security, specifying “-p” also causes bash to ignore
sensitive variables and shell functions from the environment.

In some software implementations, instead of relying on privileged
mode, the setuid process uses any of the user identifier setting
system calls such as setuid, setreuid or setresuid to set the real
user identifier to that of the effective user identifier before
invoking the bash shell. However, in such implementations, bash trusts
the environment and therefore sensitive variables and shell functions
from the environment are honored, which may allow unprivileged users
to gain the higher privileges of the setuid process.

RELATED WEAKNESSES:

   Other CWE-454

   Other CWE-456

   Other CWE-668

   Other CWE-669

REFERENCES:

Title: Bash Privileged-Mode Vulnerabilities in Parallels Desktop and CDPATH Handling in MacOS
URL: https://www.zerodayinitiative.com/blog/2023/4/5/bash-privileged-mode-vulnerabilities-in-parallels-desktop-and-cdpath-handling-in-macos


ACTIVE ISSUES:


SUB.ABS.LOWLEVEL - "Low level of abstraction"

Description: The submission identifies an issue, but its abstraction might
be too low-level to merit its own CWE entry. If it is focused on a
particular technology, framework, protocol, or function, then it might not
be unique enough to get its own CWE ID.  This might lead to modification of
an existing entry to include the additional details, or creation of a
higher-level entry for which the submission is one example. (Note: some
older CWE entries have this problem and would not be published today,
generally because they were too specific to a particular language.)

Resolution: The submission will be allowed to progress to later phases once
the more-general concept is appropriately identified and described. The
original, lower-level submission will serve as a primary example of the
more general concept.

Comments: While the weakness identified is definitely a real issue, it
is too specific to warrant its own CWE entry because of its focus on a
single option flag to be used when executing a bash shell. A more
generalized weakness could be added to CWE. For this submission, it
appears that the key issue is that the original process does not
"clear" important environment variables or otherwise set them to safe
values before invocation of the privileged process. The CWE Team
proposes creating a new Base-level weakness for "not clearing
security-critical environment variables before invoking a
program". This bash invocation submission could then be included in
elements such as a demonstrative code example, observed examples
(CVEs), etc. The CWE Team would develop the more-general entry and
collaborate with you to ensure the appropriate integration of the
details related to this specific submission.  Please indicate whether
or not you agree with this interpretation of the weakness and our
proposal for handling this submission.

Response: <SUBMITTER SHOULD REPLY HERE>


----------

SUB.RELS - "Unclear relationships"

Description: The submission suggests some relationships, but the
name/description is not explained in a way in which the relationship is
relevant; or, the weakness is apparent, but it is not clear what the best
parent/child relationship(s) would be.

Resolution: The submission cannot progress to the next phase if SUB.UNCLEAR
is present. It can progress to other phases if the CWE Team agrees that the
potential relationships may require closer investigation.  The submission
cannot progress to the Publication stage until clear relationships and
direct parents are identified. The CWE Team may decide to use high-level
relationships (e.g., to Pillars) if deeper problems such as SUB.ABS.SUBTREE
exist and cannot be quickly resolved.

Comments: The submitter suggests this is a child of CWE-454: "External
Initialization of Trusted Variables or Data Stores". This is
inappropriate because CWE-454 is focused on variables that are
initialized from inputs by an external, untrusted actor; the weakness
is in the code that trusts the variables.  In this situation, the
environment variables are not properly set or removed; the problem is
in the invoking program, not the program being called.  This is not
"initialization" as the concept is used throughout much of CWE, since
initialization is performed early before the resource is used at all;
the notion of "resetting dangerous environment variables" or clearing
them before invocation of another process is not initialization.
Accordingly, this weakness cannot be classified under CWEs related to
initialization.  The new, more general entry proposed earlier
(SUB.ABS.LOWLEVEL) could be related to CWE-668: Exposure of Resource
to Wrong Sphere, or possibly CWE-669: Incorrect Resource Transfer
Between Spheres. The CWE Team will determine the correct relationships
at a later time once there is shared agreement on the nature of the
weakness being proposed. Please provide your current thoughts on these
proposed relationships.

Response: <SUBMITTER SHOULD REPLY HERE>

----------

SUB.ABS.SUBTREE - "Potential subtree issue/gap"

Description: The submission might identify an issue for which there could
be a broader gap or organizational challenge that requires analysis of CWE
subtree relationships under Research View 1000, in ways that extend beyond
creation of a parent at the next-highest level of abstraction.

Resolution: The submission cannot progress past the consultation phase
(whether initial or detailed) unless it is at an acceptable level of
abstraction, and the subtree issue(s) can be resolved or addressed
independently.

Comments: As discussed previously in the SUB.RELS comment, weaknesses
involving "not clearing or re-setting data before invoking another
component" do not have a clearly identifiable placement within CWE
(possibly CWE-668 or CWE-669), and they are not "initialization" per
se. Some subtree reorganization might be necessary. The CWE Team will
try to separate any subtree work from processing of this submission as
much as possible. Please acknowledge that you have read this comment.

Response: <SUBMITTER SHOULD REPLY HERE>



RESOLVED ISSUES:



TIMELINE:

Received: 2023-05-08

Ack-Receipt: 2024-01-05

Init-Review: 2024-02-20

Init-Consultation: 2025-02-18

Init-Declined: YYYY-MM-DD

Init-Accepted: YYYY-MM-DD

Det-Requested: YYYY-MM-DD

Det-Received: YYYY-MM-DD

Det-Review: YYYY-MM-DD

Det-Consultation: YYYY-MM-DD

Det-Accepted: YYYY-MM-DD

Internal-Update: YYYY-MM-DD

Final-Coord: YYYY-MM-DD

CWE-Assigned: YYYY-MM-DD

CWE-Modified: YYYY-MM-DD

CWE-Published: YYYY-MM-DD

Post-Publication: YYYY-MM-DD

Closed: YYYY-MM-DD


COMMUNICATIONS LOG:
2024-01-05 sent email
2024-02-20 sent email
2024-03-13 post comment
2024-03-13 sent email
2024-03-14 received email
2024-05-03 received email
2024-05-06 sent email
2025-02-14 received email
2025-02-18 sent email
2025-02-18 sent email
2025-12-22 sent email
2025-12-22 received email
