SUBMISSION COMMUNICATION ID: ES2304-8f266ca4

ACTION TYPE: New Entry

SUBMISSION STATUS: Init-Accepted

AFFECTED CWES: 

ORIGIN: sub-server

SUBMISSION DATE: 2023-04-11 21:31:47

ISSUES: yes/active

ISSUE DETAILS: SUB.ABS.SUBTREE, SUB.RELREFS, SUB.RELS

PUBTRACKER: #53

MTRACKER: #939

GITHUBUSER: mbiesiad

SUBMISSION TYPE: Software

NAME: Inappropriate automated language translation of critical data elements in text

DESCRIPTION:

It can be exploited by bad actor in phising attacks, as well as in general
with social engineering. But the main point is that there can be situation
where webapp is like bad actor. Example: automatic translation service is
translating website address as well as other plain text, it provide to
result like "example.com" is "przyklad.com" (case English-Polish), please
notice that translated website address is totally different one. Example:
automatic translation is translating email addresses similar like for
example about website address: address@example.com vs adres@przyklad.com.
The consequences may be dire. Please notice that it is not about just
translating only these cases, but case where these important (external
website address or email address) are concluded inside translated content.
User can be in hurry and copy translated results (large text with incorrect
and malicious results). Proposed solution - proper regex for parts which
shoudn't be translated.

RELATED WEAKNESSES:

   Other CWE-451
   Other CWE-704

REFERENCES:

Title: CAPEC-148: Content Spoofing
URL: https://capec.mitre.org/data/definitions/148.html

Title: Clickjacking
URL: https://owasp.org/www-community/attacks/Clickjacking

Title: Content Spoofing
URL: https://owasp.org/www-community/attacks/Content_Spoofing




ACTIVE ISSUES:

SUB.ABS.SUBTREE - "Potential subtree issue/gap"

Description: The submission might identify an issue for which there could
be a broader gap or organizational challenge that requires analysis of CWE
subtree relationships under Research View 1000, in ways that extend beyond
creation of a parent at the next-highest level of abstraction.

Resolution: The submission cannot progress past the consultation phase
(whether initial or detailed) unless it is at an acceptable level of
abstraction, and the subtree issue(s) can be resolved or addressed
independently.

Comments: This submission highlights an important gap in CWE; CWE does
not appear to cover this type of weakness very well. We are
interpreting your submission as, roughly: "automatically applying
human-language translation to critical data elements [such as website
addresses]". We have changed the name for this submission, as well as
the associated CDR issue, to better reflect the focus of this
submission. This particular issue could be considered as a variant of
a core weakness that might be roughly described as: "applying a
transformation to data that should not be transformed" (such as email
addresses).  In addition, it may be good to have a parent that is,
roughly, "transformation to data that does not preserve intended
equivalence," as there may be a number of cases in which inputs are
transformed into other representations or internal data structures,
but the results are not exactly the same as the original input.

Language translation is an interesting example or context in which
this "inappropriate transformation" can occur; however, we believe
that it would be too low-level to make a CWE entry that is specific to
translation. Thinking more broadly, this submission appears to be
similar to "parsing inaccuracy" and/or "LLM hallucinations" in which
the product is generating incorrect data; this concept does not
currently have good coverage in CWE, so the CWE Team might need to
perform additional research to frame the core issue in a more general
way.

This "auto-translation of email address names" submission would then
be treated as a demonstrative example or otherwise be included in the
more general weakness.  The CWE Team would create the more-general
weaknesses independently, and work with you to ensure appropriate
details from this submission are included.  Please let us know what
you think of this proposal.

Response: I agree with you.

----------

SUB.RELS - "Unclear relationships"

Description: The submission suggests some relationships, but the
name/description is not explained in a way in which the relationship is
relevant; or, the weakness is apparent, but it is not clear what the best
parent/child relationship(s) would be.

Resolution: The submission cannot progress to the next phase if SUB.UNCLEAR
is present. It can progress to other phases if the CWE Team agrees that the
potential relationships may require closer investigation.  The submission
cannot progress to the Publication stage until clear relationships and
direct parents are identified. The CWE Team may decide to use high-level
relationships (e.g., to Pillars) if deeper problems such as SUB.ABS.SUBTREE
exist and cannot be quickly resolved.

Comments: As mentioned in SUB.ABS.SUBTREE, we are treating the core
weakness as "applying a transformation to data that should not be
transformed."  As such, this weakness might be best treated as a child
or sibling of CWE-704: Incorrect Type Conversion or Cast. Let us know
what you think of this proposal.

Response: I agree.


----------

SUB.RELREFS - "No relevant references"

Description: The submission does not provide relevant references that
explain the weakness, or the relevance is not easily found.

Resolution: The submission is not likely to progress to later phases if
there are no applicable, easily-accessible references. The submitter could
resolve by providing additional details such as a section name and quote
from the reference.  If no suitable references can be found, the CWE Team
may decide to make an exception.

Comments: The provided references do not discuss the problem of
translation as discussed in this submission. Please provide alternate
references that describe the problem; real-world vulnerability reports
may be included.

Response: At the time of initial submission, there were few formal
references describing this specific issue. However, I would be glad to
supply additional documentation or examples if helpful for the CWE
team's research.




RESOLVED ISSUES:



TIMELINE:

Received: 2023-04-11

Ack-Receipt: 2024-01-05

Init-Review: 2025-05-07

Init-Consultation: 2026-02-05

Init-Declined: YYYY-MM-DD

Init-Accepted: 2026-02-19

Det-Requested: YYYY-MM-DD

Det-Received: YYYY-MM-DD

Det-Review: YYYY-MM-DD

Det-Consultation: YYYY-MM-DD

Det-Accepted: YYYY-MM-DD

Internal-Update: YYYY-MM-DD

Final-Coord: YYYY-MM-DD

CWE-Assigned: YYYY-MM-DD

CWE-Modified: YYYY-MM-DD

CWE-Published: YYYY-MM-DD

Post-Publication: YYYY-MM-DD

Closed: YYYY-MM-DD


COMMUNICATIONS LOG:
2024-01-05 sent email
2025-05-07 sent email
2025-07-17 action team-discuss
2025-11-11 action team-discuss
2026-02-05 sent email
2026-02-16 received comment
2026-02-19 sent email
