SUBMISSION COMMUNICATION ID: ES2302-4c1c9d02

ACTION TYPE: Undetermined

SUBMISSION STATUS: Init-Consultation

AFFECTED CWES: 

ORIGIN: sub-server

SUBMISSION DATE: 2023-02-20 23:23:35

ISSUES: yes/active

ISSUE DETAILS: SUB.ABS.LOWLEVEL, SUB.ABS.SUBTREE

PUBTRACKER: #1

MTRACKER: #743

GITHUBUSER: mbiesiad

SUBMISSION TYPE: Software

NAME: Not logged out from other tabs during logging out in current tab

DESCRIPTION:

During the logout process, the user is not logged out from other tabs
opened in the same browser window from the same app or web
application. This can lead the user to believe that all their data is
secure, eliminating the need or desire to check other tabs. However, a
malicious actor (another user of the device - such as in a public
library, organization/company, etc.) can still access sensitive data
if they check other tabs after the logout action. This issue is
particularly risky for services like invoices and payments, or any
other situations that contain sensitive data. This weakness is
dangerous overall, because even data that is not initially sensitive
can be useful to a malicious actor, depending on the situation.

RELATED WEAKNESSES:

   Other CWE-613
   Other ES2303-496ceefb

REFERENCES:

Title: Session Management Cheat Sheet
URL: https://cheatsheetseries.owasp.org/cheatsheets/Session_Management_Cheat_Sheet.html

Title: How to Logout of Multiple Tabs | React Web App
URL: https://dev.to/demawo/how-to-logout-of-multiple-tabs-react-web-app-2egf

ACTIVE ISSUES:

SUB.ABS.LOWLEVEL - "Low level of abstraction"

Description: The submission identifies an issue, but its abstraction might
be too low-level to merit its own CWE entry. If it is focused on a
particular technology, framework, protocol, or function, then it might not
be unique enough to get its own CWE ID.  This might lead to modification of
an existing entry to include the additional details, or creation of a
higher-level entry for which the submission is one example. (Note: some
older CWE entries have this problem and would not be published today,
generally because they were too specific to a particular language.)

Resolution: The submission will be allowed to progress to later phases once
the more-general concept is appropriately identified and described. The
original, lower-level submission will serve as a primary example of the
more general concept.

Comments: The same submitter has identified another similar issue
related to CWE-613 (See "ES2303-496ceefb - Failure to Invalidate
Session when password was changed"). This requires the CWE team to
determine the most effective course of action for dealing with the
proposed content and its impact on CWE-613 and other CWEs such as
CWE-384. This could involve creating new CWEs as children of CWE-613
or modifying CWE-613, with examples highlighted in this and other
similar entries. Please indicate if you agree or disagree with this
comment.

Response: Agree


----------

SUB.ABS.SUBTREE - "Potential subtree issue/gap"

Description: The submission might identify an issue for which there could
be a broader gap or organizational challenge that requires analysis of CWE
subtree relationships under Research View 1000, in ways that extend beyond
creation of a parent at the next-highest level of abstraction.

Resolution: The submission cannot progress past the consultation phase
(whether initial or full) unless it is at an acceptable level of
abstraction, and the subtree issue(s) can be resolved or addressed
independently.

Comments: CWE does not currently have a fleshed-out subtree related to
session weaknesses, so more research might be needed to determine if
the CWE hierarchy needs adjustments. Please indicate if you agree or
disagree with this comment.

Response: Agree



----------

RESOLVED ISSUES:

----------

SUB.GRAMMAR - "Grammar/Spelling issues"

Description: The submission has multiple occurrences of errors with
grammar, spelling, etc. that should be fixed before publication.

Resolution: The submission will not be allowed to progress to later phases
if the grammar or spelling problems are so significant that they are likely
to cause difficulty for readers to understand the weakness. If the issues
are minor, then the submission could progress.	However, no submission can
be published without grammar and spelling checks. American English is used
for spelling.

Comments: The existing description does not adhere to the standard
rules of American English grammar and style. Here's a proposed
revision for enhanced clarity and correctness. "During the logout
process, the user is not logged out from other tabs opened in the same
browser window from the same app or web application. This can lead the
user to believe that all their data is secure, eliminating the need or
desire to check other tabs. However, a malicious actor (another user
of the device - such as in a public library, organization/company,
etc.) can still access sensitive data if they check other tabs after
the logout action. This issue is particularly risky for services like
invoices and payments, or any other situations that contain sensitive
data. This weakness is dangerous overall, because even data that is
not initially sensitive can be useful to a malicious actor, depending
on the situation." Please let us know if you agree or disagree with
the newly proposed description.

Response: Agree (sorry for that and thank you for your help!)




TIMELINE:

Received: 2023-02-20

Ack-Receipt: 2023-02-23

Init-Review: 2024-06-11

Init-Consultation: 2024-09-10

Init-Declined: YYYY-MM-DD

Init-Accepted: YYYY-MM-DD

Det-Requested: YYYY-MM-DD

Det-Received: YYYY-MM-DD

Det-Review: YYYY-MM-DD

Det-Consultation: YYYY-MM-DD

Det-Accepted: YYYY-MM-DD

Internal-Update: YYYY-MM-DD

Final-Coord: YYYY-MM-DD

CWE-Assigned: YYYY-MM-DD

CWE-Modified: YYYY-MM-DD

CWE-Published: YYYY-MM-DD

Post-Publication: YYYY-MM-DD

Closed: YYYY-MM-DD


COMMUNICATIONS LOG:
2023-02-23 sent email
2023-09-12 publish server
2024-06-04 sent email
2024-09-10 sent email
2024-09-12 received comment
