SUBMISSION COMMUNICATION ID: ES2302-c4107569

ACTION TYPE: Modification

SUBMISSION STATUS: CWE-Modified

AFFECTED CWES: CWE-1428

ORIGIN: sub-server

SUBMISSION DATE: 2023-02-08 09:42:54

ISSUES: yes/resolved

ISSUE DETAILS: 

PUBTRACKER: #5

MTRACKER: #737

GITHUBUSER: mbiesiad

SUBMISSION TYPE: Software

NAME: Lack of HTTPS Forcing

DESCRIPTION:

In some cases it can be not important, but in other - it can be very
important (if bad actor can easy get info about some of user activity and
'connection' with definite site using sniffing etc). We can add this as
variant or new record - here I want to be focused on quite often overlooked
case - no HTTPS forcing for used assets like images. POC - site/service has
proper HTTPS forcing, but for assets like images it doesn't work properly
(no HTTP forcing - HTTP instead of HTTPS). Proposed remediation: HTTPS
Forcing also for used assets like images, and so on.

Despite of articles like
https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Security/Mixed_content
https://web.dev/fixing-mixed-content/
nowadays mixed HTTP and HTTPS protocols are common.

Assets are often omitted with using HTTPS.

(mentioned examples sites from my side are accidental and
unintentional) Example: https://banksitezxc.example and used there
 HTTP://cdn.banksitezxc.example/logo.png - bad actor can get to know
about user - bank relation (or interaction) in this case (sniffing).


RELATED WEAKNESSES:

RelType: Other
ID: CWE-319
View-ID: 1000

RelType: Other
ID: ES2302-1f7d9e54 Using HTTP instead of HTTPS with email and other content



REFERENCES:

Title: Mixed content
URL: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Security/Mixed_content

Title: Fixing mixed content
URL: https://web.dev/fixing-mixed-content/

Title: HTTPS and your online security
URL: https://blog.mozilla.org/en/products/firefox/https-protect/

Title: HTTPS as a ranking signal
URL: https://developers.google.com/search/blog/2014/08/https-as-ranking-signal?

Title: Transport Layer Security Cheat Sheet
URL: https://cheatsheetseries.owasp.org/cheatsheets/Transport_Layer_Security_Cheat_Sheet.html

Title: Why use HTTPS?
URL: https://www.cloudflare.com/learning/ssl/why-use-https/

Title: Encrypting the Web
URL: https://www.eff.org/encrypt-the-web

ACTIVE ISSUES:



RESOLVED ISSUES:

----------

SUB.RELREFS - "No relevant references"

Description: The submission does not provide relevant references that
explain the weakness, or the relevance is not easily found.

Resolution: The submission is not likely to progress to later phases if
there are no applicable, easily-accessible references. The submitter could
resolve by providing additional details such as a section name and quote
from the reference.  If references still are not available, the CWE Team
may decide to make an exception if no suitable reference is available.

Comments: The mixed-content references are related to this weakness,
but are there other references that are more narrowly focused on the
lack of HTTPS forcing?

Response: [provided 4 references updated in the submission: HTTPS and
your online security, HTTPS as a ranking signal, Transport Layer
Security Cheat Sheet, and Why use HTTPS?]

----------

SUB.MISC - "Miscellaneous/other problem"

Description: The submission has some other problem that is not covered
elsewhere.

Resolution: This will depend on the nature of the problem.

Comments: Since other submissions touch on "use of http instead of
https" and there is discussion on the CWE-Research list on this topic,
it is not yet clear how to handle these changes within CDR. It's
possible that a separate submission (or an independent new entry) will
be created, and the results of this submission will be integrated into
the new entry.  Please acknowledge this and provide any additional
comments.

Response: Agree

----------

SUB.ABS.SUBTREE - "Potential subtree issue/gap"

Description: The submission might identify an issue for which there could
be a broader gap or organizational challenge that requires analysis of CWE
subtree relationships under Research View 1000, in ways that extend beyond
creation of a parent at the next-highest level of abstraction.

Resolution: The submission cannot progress past the consultation phase
(whether initial or full) unless it is at an acceptable level of
abstraction, and the subtree issue(s) can be resolved or addressed
independently.

Comments: CWE-319 is pretty high level (maybe it should be a level-2
Class, although it's currently treated as a Base.) However, given
discussion on the CWE-Research mailing list in January 2024, it might
be reasonable to create a child, Base-level CWE for "using a cleartext
protocol when an encrypted equivalent is available" or something like
that. It might even be reasonable to create a new, Variant-level entry
for "use of HTTP instead of HTTPS" - possibly covering "lack of HTTPS
forcing".  Regardless of the decision for new entries, it's reasonable
to somehow cover the lack of HTTPS forcing.  More research and
discussion is needed. Please provide your thoughts on this proposal.

Response: Agree

----------

SUB.OVERLAP - "Duplicate/Overlap"

Description: The submission identifies a weakness, but it is a duplicate of
(or partially overlaps) existing weaknesses, indicating problems with the
submission or associated CWE entries.

Resolution: The submission cannot progress to later phases until (1) the
duplicate/overlap is understood and (2) it is clear how to resolve this
duplicate/overlap.

Comments: While there is no overlap with existing CWEs, there is a
separate submission in this general area - ES2302-1f7d9e54 "Using HTTP
instead of HTTPS with email and other content" - as well as some
discussion on the CWE-Research mailing list in January 2024. While
this overlap can probably be resolved without too much effort, it
still must be noted.  Please indicate agreement or explain why the
differences are big enough that separate CWE identifiers might be
needed.

Response: Agree

------

SUB.ABS.LOWLEVEL - "Low level of abstraction"

Description: The submission identifies an issue, but its abstraction might
be too low-level to merit its own CWE entry. If it is focused on a
particular technology, framework, protocol, or function, then it might not
be unique enough to get its own CWE ID.  This might lead to modification of
an existing entry to include the additional details, or creation of a
higher-level entry for which the submission is one example. (Note: some
older CWE entries have this problem and would not be published today,
generally because they were too specific to a particular language.)

Resolution: The submission will be allowed to progress to later phases once
the more-general concept is appropriately identified and described. The
original, lower-level submission will serve as a primary example of the
more general concept.

Comments: The CWE Team created a new CWE entry for "Reliance on HTTP
instead of HTTPS" (CWE-1428) and integrated this submission's
information by including HTTPS forcing as a mitigation and including
some provided references.

Response: [RESOLVED ISSUE; DO NOT CHANGE]




TIMELINE:

Received: 2023-02-08

Ack-Receipt: 2023-02-22

Init-Review: 2024-01-19

Init-Consultation: 2024-02-20

Init-Declined: YYYY-MM-DD

Init-Accepted: 2025-02-05

Det-Requested: YYYY-MM-DD

Det-Received: YYYY-MM-DD

Det-Review: YYYY-MM-DD

Det-Consultation: YYYY-MM-DD

Det-Accepted: YYYY-MM-DD

Internal-Update: 2025-04-01

Final-Coord: YYYY-MM-DD

CWE-Assigned: YYYY-MM-DD

CWE-Modified: 2025-04-01

CWE-Published: YYYY-MM-DD

Post-Publication: YYYY-MM-DD

Closed: YYYY-MM-DD


COMMUNICATIONS LOG:
2023-02-22 sent email
2023-09-12 publish server
2024-01-19 sent email
2024-02-20 sent email
2024-05-09 received comment
2025-02-04 sent email
2025-02-05 received email
2025-02-05 sent email
