SUBMISSION COMMUNICATION ID: ES2302-7bfc4f68

ACTION TYPE: Modification

SUBMISSION STATUS: Init-Accepted

AFFECTED CWES: 

ORIGIN: sub-server

SUBMISSION DATE: 2023-02-08 09:21:42

ISSUES: yes/active

ISSUE DETAILS: SUB.GRAMMAR, SUB.RELS, SUB.UNCLEAR

PUBTRACKER: #6

MTRACKER: #736

GITHUBUSER: mbiesiad

SUBMISSION TYPE: Software

NAME: Impersonation of organisation or company

DESCRIPTION:

Depends of service's type it can be included in the risk, not important or
very important. Bad actor using keywords like name of org/company and
'helpdesk/support/admin/security' and other keywords, etc, can easy make
Impersonation. Many scenarios here - like 'authorized' phising action, lost
of trust and so on. Proposed remediation: during registration or other
connected (ie. with username) steps add regex with org/company name to
avoid this scenario.

RELATED WEAKNESSES:

   Other CWE-345
   Other CWE-286

REFERENCES:

Title: CWE-345: Insufficient Verification of Data Authenticity
URL: https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/345.html

Title: Testing for Account Enumeration and Guessable User Account ("Testing Staff Impersonation" section)
URL: https://owasp.org/www-project-web-security-testing-guide/latest/4-Web_Application_Security_Testing/03-Identity_Management_Testing/04-Testing_for_Account_Enumeration_and_Guessable_User_Account

Title: Social Engineering Remains a Top Cybersecurity Concern
URL: https://www.varonis.com/blog/social-engineering-remains-a-top-cybersecurity-concern

Title: Regular expression to validate username
URL: https://stackoverflow.com/questions/12018245/regular-expression-to-validate-username


ACTIVE ISSUES:

SUB.UNCLEAR - "Unclear weakness"

Description: The submission's name and/or description does not clearly
identify a weakness, or it is written in a way that is vague and could
cause the submission to be incorrectly mapped to.

Resolution: An initial submission (or full submission) cannot progress past
the consultation phase until SUB.UNCLEAR is addressed.

Comments: The description does not clearly explain the mistake and is
focused more on the attack. Is this a recommendation to modify CWE-345
to mention the risk of allowing risky keywords in the email address or
user name?

Response: Agree.  Yes, I think it could be nice to mention the risk of
allowing risky keywords in the usernames at least (as a kind of
defense in depth / additional security layer).


----------

SUB.RELS - "Unclear relationships"

Description: The submission suggests some relationships, but the
name/description is not explained in a way in which the relationship is
relevant; or, the weakness is apparent, but it is not clear what the best
parent/child relationship(s) would be.

Resolution: The submission cannot progress to the next phase if SUB.UNCLEAR
is present. It can progress to other phases if the CWE Team agrees that the
potential relationships may require closer investigation.  The submission
cannot progress to the publication stage until clear relationships and
direct parents are identified. The CWE Team may decide to use high-level
relationships (e.g., to Pillars) if deeper problems such as SUB.ABS.SUBTREE
exist and cannot be quickly resolved.

Comments: it is not clear whether CWE-345 is an appropriate mapping. A
better option might be CWE-286: Incorrect User Management.

Response: Agree. Sounds good.


----------

SUB.GRAMMAR - "Grammar/Spelling issues"

Description: The submission has multiple occurrences of errors with
grammar, spelling, etc. that should be fixed before publication.

Resolution: The submission will not be allowed to progress to later phases
if the grammar or spelling problems are so significant that they are likely
to cause difficulty for readers to understand the weakness. If the issues
are minor, then the submission could progress.	However, no submission can
be published without grammar and spelling checks. American English is used
for spelling.

Comments: The description, if it is used, will need some
clarifications and grammar fixes. It is not important to change this
until the weakness is more clearly explained. (See SUB.UNCLEAR above.)

Response: Agree.




RESOLVED ISSUES:

SUB.ATTACK - "Too attack-focused"

Description: The submission's name and/or description emphasizes the
attack, not the weakness. Either the submission's weakness is not
well-understood, or it is better described as an attack pattern, which may
be suitable for inclusion in CAPEC.

Resolution: An initial submission cannot progress to later phases unless it
also includes a clear weakness (i.e., is not subject to SUB.UNCLEAR).

Comments: This submission focuses on the attack (using "bad"
keywords). If you are proposing a modification to an existing CWE
entry, then this might be OK.

Response: Agree.

----------

SUB.ABS.LOWLEVEL - "Low level of abstraction"

Description: The submission identifies an issue, but its abstraction might
be too low-level to merit its own CWE entry. If it is focused on a
particular technology, framework, protocol, or function, then it might not
be unique enough to get its own CWE ID.  This might lead to modification of
an existing entry to include the additional details, or creation of a
higher-level entry for which the submission is one example. (Note: some
older CWE entries have this problem and would not be published today,
generally because they were too specific to a particular language.)

Resolution: The submission will be allowed to progress to later phases once
the more-general concept is appropriately identified and described. The
original, lower-level submission will serve as a primary example of the
more general concept.

Comments: This example is too specific to create a new CWE
entry. However, it might be useful to improve an existing entry.

Response: Agree.


----------

SUB.RELREFS - "No relevant references"

Description: The submission does not provide relevant references that
explain the weakness, or the relevance is not easily found.

Resolution: The submission is not likely to progress to later phases if
there are no applicable, easily-accessible references. The submitter could
resolve by providing additional details such as a section name and quote
from the reference.  If references still are not available, the CWE Team
may decide to make an exception if no suitable reference is available.

Comments: If there is some public reference that explains this attack
or weakness in specific detail, please provide the URL for it.

Response: [provided 3 references, updated in submission: Testing for
Account Enumeration and Guessable User Account ("Testing Staff
Impersonation" section), Social Engineering Remains a Top
Cybersecurity Concern, and Regular expression to validate username.]


----------

SUB.ACTION - "Unable to determine action"

Description: It is not clear what action to perform based on the
submission, e.g., create new entry, update existing entry, etc.

Resolution: The submission cannot progress to the Production stage until
the relevant actions(s) are identified.

Comments: It is unclear whether the submitter is asking to add a new
CWE entry or to modify an existing one. Please tell us which action
you are suggesting.

Response: It could be like from recommendations, could be modify an existing one (my goal is to make a safer web and world in this way).

PS.  Preparing responses for you I've found quite nice resource -
given above: "Testing Staff Impersonation Ensure that unregistered
users are unable to select reserved usernames (e.g., admin,
administrator, moderator) during the registration
process. Additionally, verify that users cannot edit their current
username to one of these reserved usernames on the profile editing
page. (...)", source:
https://owasp.org/www-project-web-security-testing-guide/latest/4-Web_Application_Security_Testing/03-Identity_Management_Testing/04-Testing_for_Account_Enumeration_and_Guessable_User_Account



TIMELINE:

Received: 2023-02-08

Ack-Receipt: 2023-02-22

Init-Review: 2023-12-14

Init-Consultation: 2024-02-20

Init-Declined: YYYY-MM-DD

Init-Accepted: 2025-09-14

Det-Requested: YYYY-MM-DD

Det-Received: YYYY-MM-DD

Det-Review: YYYY-MM-DD

Det-Consultation: YYYY-MM-DD

Det-Accepted: YYYY-MM-DD

Internal-Update: YYYY-MM-DD

Final-Coord: YYYY-MM-DD

CWE-Assigned: YYYY-MM-DD

CWE-Modified: YYYY-MM-DD

CWE-Published: YYYY-MM-DD

Post-Publication: YYYY-MM-DD

Closed: YYYY-MM-DD


COMMUNICATIONS LOG:
2023-02-22 sent email
2023-09-12 publish server
2023-12-14 sent email
2024-02-20 sent email
2024-05-10 received comment
2025-09-14 sent email
