SUBMISSION COMMUNICATION ID: ES2311-17601269

ACTION TYPE: Modification

SUBMISSION STATUS: Init-Consultation

AFFECTED CWES: 

ORIGIN: sub-server

SUBMISSION DATE: 2023-11-25 16:40:16

ISSUES: yes/active

ISSUE DETAILS: SUB.ATTACK, SUB.OVERLAP, SUB.GRAMMAR, SUB.ACTCHANGE 

PUBTRACKER: #39

MTRACKER: #958

GITHUBUSER: mbiesiad

SUBMISSION TYPE: Software

NAME: CWE-601: URL Redirection to Untrusted Site ('Open Redirect')

DESCRIPTION:

A web application accepts a user-controlled input that specifies a link to
an external site, and uses that link in a Redirect. This simplifies
phishing attacks. Open Redirect allow also to immediately download a file
without user permission in some cases (because it is about redirection to
external site, some endpoints on external sites can trigger download
action).

RELATED WEAKNESSES:

   ChildOf CWE-601

REFERENCES:

Title: Drive-by download
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Drive-by_download

Title: What Is a Drive by Download
URL: https://www.kaspersky.com/resource-center/definitions/drive-by-download


ACTIVE ISSUES:

SUB.ATTACK - "Too attack-focused"

Description: The submission's name and/or description emphasizes the
attack, not the weakness. Either the submission's weakness is not
well-understood, or it is better described as an attack pattern, which may
be suitable for inclusion in CAPEC.

Resolution: An initial submission cannot progress to later phases unless it
also includes a clear weakness (i.e., is not subject to SUB.UNCLEAR).

Comments: The description provided builds on the current CWE-601's description
by adding that "This simplifies phishing attacks". This is not a place for
description, and it is already covered in the Extended Description of CWE-601. 
Please let us know if you agree with the suggestion.

Response: Agree.


----------

SUB.OVERLAP - "Duplicate/Overlap"

Description: The submission identifies a weakness, but it is a duplicate of
(or partially overlaps) existing weaknesses or other submissions,
indicating problems with the submission or associated CWE entries.

Resolution: The submission cannot progress to later phases until (1) the
duplicate/overlap is understood and (2) it is clear how to resolve this
duplicate/overlap.

Comments: "Open Redirect allow also to immediately download a file
without user permission in some cases (because it is about redirection
to external site, some endpoints on external sites can trigger
download action)." is being suggested for an addition to the current
CWE-601's description.  However, as the CWE looks to become more
user-friendly, we will have to evaluate where this explanation best
fits. For example, it may belong in Common Consequences, or it might
be useful as a demonstrative example.  Please let us know if you agree
with the suggestion.

Response: Agree. Could be as an addition to the current CWE-601's
description. Could be as Common Consequences or Demonstrative Example
(the decision is yours).

I believe it’s worth mentioning (or adding), as based on my observations,
many people are not aware of this, and it highlights an additional threat
— not just 'mere redirection,' but the ability to download a file with
arbitrary content.



----------

SUB.GRAMMAR - "Grammar/Spelling issues"

Description: The submission has multiple occurrences of errors with
grammar, spelling, etc. that must be fixed before the Publication stage.

Resolution: The submission will not be allowed to progress to later phases
if the grammar or spelling problems are so significant that they are likely
to cause difficulty for readers to understand the weakness. If the issues
are minor, then the submission could progress.	However, no submission can
move to the Publication stage without grammar and spelling checks. American
English is used for spelling.

Comments: The current description isn't properly written. Here is a suggested
tweak: "An open redirect can also enable the immediate download of a file 
without the user's permission in certain cases. This occurs because the 
redirection to an external site may lead to endpoints on those sites that 
automatically trigger a download action." Please let us know if you agree with
the suggestion.

Response: Response: Agree. Sorry for that and thank you so much.

----------

SUB.ACTCHANGE - "Change in action for submission"

Description: The submission's action needs to change, e.g., from "New
Entry" to "Modification," or vice versa. This potentially requires changes
to the kinds of information that will need to be provided.

Resolution: The submission cannot progress to Stage 3 (Content-Generation)
until the informational needs are addressed.

Comments: The suggestion provided offers edits to the existing CWE-601's
description, therefore, it doesn't need a new CWE. Please let us know if 
you agree with the suggestion.

Response: Agree.



----------

RESOLVED ISSUES:



TIMELINE:

Received: 2023-11-25

Ack-Receipt: 2024-01-05

Init-Review: 2024-07-17

Init-Consultation: 2025-01-20

Init-Declined: YYYY-MM-DD

Init-Accepted: YYYY-MM-DD

Det-Requested: YYYY-MM-DD

Det-Received: YYYY-MM-DD

Det-Review: YYYY-MM-DD

Det-Consultation: YYYY-MM-DD

Det-Accepted: YYYY-MM-DD

Internal-Update: YYYY-MM-DD

Final-Coord: YYYY-MM-DD

CWE-Assigned: YYYY-MM-DD

CWE-Modified: YYYY-MM-DD

CWE-Published: YYYY-MM-DD

Post-Publication: YYYY-MM-DD

Closed: YYYY-MM-DD




COMMUNICATIONS LOG:
2023-12-21 received comment
2023-12-16 action update
2024-01-05 sent email
2024-06-10 sent email
2025-01-20 sent email
2025-01-22 received comment
