SUBMISSION COMMUNICATION ID: ES2306-c0b52346

ACTION TYPE: Undetermined

SUBMISSION STATUS: Init-Consultation

AFFECTED CWES: 

ORIGIN: sub-server

SUBMISSION DATE: 2023-06-23 21:01:10

ISSUES: yes/active

ISSUE DETAILS: SUB.ATTACK, SUB.OVERLAP, SUB.ABS.SUBTREE, SUB.NEWTECH, SUB.COORD, SUB.ACTION

PUBTRACKER: #60

MTRACKER: #943

GITHUBUSER: 

SUBMISSION TYPE: Hardware, Software

NAME: Use of a Quantum-Vulnerable Cryptographic Algorithm

DESCRIPTION:

Cryptographic algorithms are used to protect the confidentiality and
authenticity stored in or transmitted through an untrusted medium. 
Quantum-vulnerable algorithms will be exploitable if or when a
Cryptographically Relevant Quantum Computer (CRQC) is built, in which case
sensitive information could be exposed, data could be undetectably
modified, and the identities of users and devices could be spoofed, among
other impacts.	

Data that is encrypted by a quantum-vulnerable encryption or key
establishment algorithm, and has a long data protection period, is
especially at risk, because an adversary can store encrypted data today and
decrypt it later with a CRQC . Such an attack is called
harvest-now-decrypt-later, and it creates significant risk for long-term
data confidentiality.  Additionally, an adversary with a CRQC could forge
signatures for quantum-vulnerable algorithms, creating a risk for
signatures with a long data protection period, especially those used to
sign software images in devices where the root of trust cannot be upgraded.

RELATED WEAKNESSES:

   ChildOf CWE-327

REFERENCES:

Title: Announcing the Commercial National Security Algorithm Suite 2.0
URL: https://media.defense.gov/2022/Sep/07/2003071834/-1/-1/0/CSA_CNSA_2.0_ALGORITHMS_.PDF

Title: NIST Post-Quantum Cryptography
URL: https://csrc.nist.gov/projects/post-quantum-cryptography

Title: Migration to Post-Quantum Cryptography Quantum Readiness: Cryptographic Discovery
URL: https://www.nccoe.nist.gov/sites/default/files/2023-12/pqc-migration-nist-sp-1800-38b-preliminary-draft.pdf


ACTIVE ISSUES:

SUB.COORD - "Requires extensive coordination"

Description: The submission will require or is currently undergoing close
coordination, discussion, and debate between multiple parties with
different perspectives and opinions.  The communication could be taking
place in CDR itself, or outside of CDR.  As a result, it might take longer
to move the submission to later phases, although the submission is expected
to be more robust and well-defined as a result of this coordination.

Resolution: The submission cannot progress past the Init-Consultation or
Det-Consultation phases until sufficient consensus has been reached, or if
the CWE Team decides to move the submission to the next phase.

Comments: Due to the number of concerns with this submission and
active interest from multiple parties, progress for this submission is
likely to require extensive coordination before rough consensus can be
reached. Also, the CWE Team does not have any Subject Matter Experts
(SME) in this topic but plans to engage with other MITRE staff to
provide supplementary expertise. Please acknowledge this need for
additional coordination.

Response: <SUBMITTER SHOULD REPLY HERE>


----------

SUB.NEWTECH - "New/Emerging Technology"

Description: The submission is related to a new or emerging technology that
is not well-understood from a weakness perspective, which can cause real or
perceived gaps in CWE that require extra effort and time to analyze.
Typically, for new/emerging technologies, early vulnerability discovery and
research does not focus on root cause analysis (i.e., weakness
identification). Instead, the focus is on other areas such as attacks and
exploitation methods, technical impacts, threats, mitigations, or other
concerns.  As a result, industry understanding can be limited, effectively
requiring research or focused efforts by SMEs to understand the underlying
weaknesses.  Rapidly-changing, diverse terminology and technology can
further complicate understanding. Finally, there might not be enough
real-world examples with sufficient details from which weakness patterns
may be discovered.  For this reason, it can be difficult to determine
whether CWE entries already cover the topics of concern, and which gaps (if
any) exist.  As of May 2024, some new or emerging technologies include
AI/ML, cryptocurrency/blockchain, post-quantum cryptography, and
large-scale architectures with many components that have different trust
boundaries.  In previous years, new/emerging domains for CWE included
hardware, cloud, and ICS/OT.

Resolution: The submission cannot progress past the Init-Consultation or
Det-Consultation phases until sufficient attempts have been made to
understand the weaknesses commonly seen in new or emerging technologies, or
if the CWE Team decides to move the submission to the next phase.  Analysis
could include analyzing well-known attacks to understand the weaknesses
that enable the attacks to succeed; analysis of mitigations to understand
how the underlying weaknesses are perceived; and/or other methods.  Such
analysis might require consultation with a variety of Subject Matter
Experts (SMEs).

Comments: Quantum computing and associated cryptographic exploits are
relatively new and, by their nature, effectively theoretical. This may
pose complications in analyzing the submission to determine the
underlying weakness(es) and fit them into the existing CWE
hierarchical structure. If there is published weakness-oriented
analysis that highlights the features of algorithms that are now
quantum-vulnerable, please provide them, as they would be helpful in
guiding future work.  Please indicate your opinion on this assessment.

Response: <SUBMITTER SHOULD REPLY HERE>

----------

SUB.ATTACK - "Too attack-focused"

Description: The submission's name and/or description emphasizes the
attack, not the weakness. Either the submission's weakness is not
well-understood, or it is better described as an attack pattern, which may
be suitable for inclusion in CAPEC.

Resolution: An initial submission cannot progress to later phases unless it
also includes a clear weakness (i.e., is not subject to SUB.UNCLEAR).

Comments: While the name and description are weakness-oriented, this
submission could be restated as "use of an algorithm that is
vulnerable to any kind of attack enabled by quantum computing."
Ideally, CWE would cover the variety of weaknesses in design or
implementation that enable attacks to occur, but cryptography seems to
be an attack-oriented field. This submission seems similar to how
rainbow tables made password cracking more feasible (as mentioned in
CWE-916: Use of Password Hash With Insufficient Computational
Effort). There was an improvement in the attack space, but other
attacks were also relevant to the hash-computation CWE. It is not
clear whether post-quantum computing attacks are discrete enough from
other attacks related to computing resources. Additional effort will
be required.  Please let us know whether you agree or disagree with
these comments.

Response: <SUBMITTER SHOULD REPLY HERE>


----------

SUB.OVERLAP - "Duplicate/Overlap"

Description: The submission identifies a weakness, but it is a duplicate of
(or partially overlaps) existing weaknesses or other submissions,
indicating problems with the submission or associated CWE entries.

Resolution: The submission cannot progress to later phases until (1) the
duplicate/overlap is understood and (2) it is clear how to resolve this
duplicate/overlap.

Comments: It will take some effort to determine the best way to update
CWE to address PQC concerns.  This submission effectively includes
multiple weaknesses that happen to be easily broken by post-quantum
computing.  Creating a new CWE-327 child for "use of a
quantum-vulnerable algorithm" is one approach, but it seems likely
that many other existing CWEs would also be relevant to PQC.  Creating
a new entry from this submission as-is could lead to cases in which
the same problem could logically map to multiple CWE entries, which is
not ideal, since CWE is intended to provide unambiguous, mutually
exclusive entries in which a problem should only be mappable to one
CWE (ignoring chains).  For example, the NCCoE paper identifies some
digital signature algorithms that are considered vulnerable.
Signatures are also mentioned within CWE-1240: Use of a Cryptographic
Primitive with a Risky Implementation.  (Note that on the surface, use
of a quantum-vulnerable digital signature algorithm would seem related
to CWE-347: Improper Verification of Cryptographic Signature, but
CWE-347 focuses on errors when performing signature verification - not
issues in the verification itself.) Please let us know whether you
agree or disagree with these comments.

Response: <SUBMITTER SHOULD REPLY HERE>


----------

SUB.ABS.SUBTREE - "Potential subtree issue/gap"

Description: The submission might identify an issue for which there could
be a broader gap or organizational challenge that requires analysis of CWE
subtree relationships under Research View 1000, in ways that extend beyond
creation of a parent at the next-highest level of abstraction.

Resolution: The submission cannot progress past the consultation phase
(whether initial or detailed) unless it is at an acceptable level of
abstraction, and the subtree issue(s) can be resolved or addressed
independently.

Comments: CWE's hierarchical structure is not well-organized with
respect to cryptography and would benefit from weakness-focused input
by a variety of Subject Matter Experts. Until cryptography-related CWE
weaknesses can be improved more systematically, it is highly likely
that any new entries will have some limitations in how they are used
to map to existing vulnerabilities and/or how they can provide clarity
to developers about cryptography weaknesses.

Response: <SUBMITTER SHOULD REPLY HERE>


----------

SUB.ACTION - "Unable to determine action"

Description: It is not clear what action to perform based on the
submission, e.g., create new entry, update existing entry, etc.

Resolution: The submission cannot progress to the Internal-Update stage
until the relevant actions(s) are identified.

Comments: A major overhaul of CWE's hierarchical structure could
ultimately simplify the task of handling PQC concerns within CWE, but
that that would take significant time and effort, and there might be
other ways to handle PQC sooner. Discussion will be necessary to
determine whether it is best to create a single child under CWE-327,
to modify existing CWE entries to ensure that post-quantum
considerations are included, or possibly both. The following is a
non-exhaustive set of CWEs that would require further investigation:
CWE-327, CWE-326, CWE-1240, and their descendants.

Response: <SUBMITTER SHOULD REPLY HERE>




RESOLVED ISSUES:

SCOPE.NOTREAL - "Not a real-world issue"

Description: The issue has not happened and cannot occur in real-world
software or other electronic logic, and/or has no actual security
implications.

Resolution: As of January 2023, the submission will be rejected or delayed
pending close review, possibly including community engagement.

Comments: While it is unknown how feasible it is to construct a
Cryptographically Relevant Quantum Computer (CRQC), this is a
potential problem that is taken seriously by organizations with
long-term risk concerns, and concrete real-world actions are being
taken to replace quantum-vulnerable algorithms with other
algorithms. As such, even though the issue is not currently exploited,
this issue should not be prevented from being added to CWE.

Response: [RESOLVED ISSUE; DO NOT CHANGE]

----------

SCOPE.NOMITS - "No actionable mitigations"

Description: There are no actionable mitigations available to the
developer/designer/manufacturer to prevent or reduce the weakness.

Resolution: Submissions will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis, delayed,
and possibly cited as examples until this exclusion is finalized after
extensive community feedback.

Comments: While there may be debate about the feasibility of exploits
against quantum-vulnerable algorithms, actionable migitations have
been proposed. Therefore this scope exclusion does not apply.

Response: [RESOLVED ISSUE; DO NOT CHANGE]

----------



TIMELINE:

Received: 2023-06-23

Ack-Receipt: 2024-01-05

Init-Review: 2024-09-09

Init-Consultation: 2024-09-11

Init-Declined: YYYY-MM-DD

Init-Accepted: YYYY-MM-DD

Det-Requested: YYYY-MM-DD

Det-Received: YYYY-MM-DD

Det-Review: YYYY-MM-DD

Det-Consultation: YYYY-MM-DD

Det-Accepted: YYYY-MM-DD

Internal-Update: YYYY-MM-DD

Final-Coord: YYYY-MM-DD

CWE-Assigned: YYYY-MM-DD

CWE-Modified: YYYY-MM-DD

CWE-Published: YYYY-MM-DD

Post-Publication: YYYY-MM-DD

Closed: YYYY-MM-DD




COMMUNICATIONS LOG:
2024-01-05 sent email
2024-04-12 received email
2024-09-04 received email
2024-09-05 sent email
2024-09-09 sent email
2024-09-11 sent email
