SUBMISSION COMMUNICATION ID: ES2301-82f13da2

ACTION TYPE: Modification

SUBMISSION STATUS: Init-Consultation

AFFECTED CWES: 

ORIGIN: sub-server

SUBMISSION DATE: 2023-01-13 08:24:25

ISSUES: yes/active

ISSUE DETAILS: SUB.UNCLEAR, SUB.ABS.LOWLEVEL, SUB.ATTACK, SUB.GRAMMAR

PUBTRACKER: #9

MTRACKER: #719

GITHUBUSER: mbiesiad

SUBMISSION TYPE: Software

NAME: Allowing modifications of displayed assets by unauthorized actor leads to content spoofing

DESCRIPTION:

When product allow to modify content like ie. assets by unauthorized
actor and it is not intended feature, content spoofing can be
exploited.

Bad actor using images with QR codes can exploit the weakness and make
more successful phishing. Moreover, link start with trusted name like
organization or company name - organization or company can lost trust
and reputation, if bad actor want to show illegal and bad things, the
same with possible legal issues, because from victim point of view
(ie.: scanned QR code from vulnerable site) the org allowed to attack
victim.

See image at https://github.com/CWE-CAPEC/CWE-Content-Development-Repository/issues/9#issuecomment-1728507339

(mentioned examples sites from my side are accidental and unintentional)

I will use here [...] as other part of URL here, because current
solutions can be little different (in details), but idea is the same.

Example - www.verygoodwebsiteee.com/[...]/https://cdn.[...].verygoodwebsiteee-logo.png
Bad actor can change and obfuscate the parameter where image is
fetched (ie. using URL encoding like %2F) to make for victim visible
(before click/interaction) mainly trusted site part (start of URL). If
bad actor will make similar like (here presented is with not
obfuscated form):
www.verygoodwebsiteee.com/[...]/https://somesiteee.com/qrimage.png

Image qrimage.png (what end user will see) can be with text like
"Please scan this QR Code", not "raw" QR code - as image can contain
written content. From victim point of view the most important is part
www.verygoodwebsiteee.com/ - next [...] can be quite long, and part
with payload /https://somesiteee.com/qrimage.png is easy to not
noticed. Seeing trusted site and displayed QR code can easily be a
victim.

Mitigation - Using white/allow list for external assets sites - don't
allow to load assets from untrusted sources by unauthorized actors


RELATED WEAKNESSES:

   ChildOf CWE-601

REFERENCES:

Title: QR code security risks
URL: https://www.malwarebytes.com/cybersecurity/basics/what-is-a-qr-code

Title: Content Spoofing
URL: https://owasp.org/www-community/attacks/Content_Spoofing

Title: CWE-601: URL Redirection to Untrusted Site ('Open Redirect')
URL: https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/601.html

Title: CAPEC-148: Content Spoofing
URL: https://capec.mitre.org/data/definitions/148.html



ACTIVE ISSUES:

SUB.UNCLEAR - "Unclear weakness"

Description: The submission's name and/or description does not clearly
identify a weakness, or it is written in a way that is vague and could
cause the submission to be incorrectly mapped to.

Resolution: An initial submission (or full submission) cannot progress past
the consultation phase until SUB.UNCLEAR is addressed.

Comments: This seems more like some sort of stored XSS, but the
payload is a QR code that will load a malicious site.  Further details
are needed to better understand the underlying weakness.

Response: <SUBMITTER SHOULD REPLY HERE>


----------

SUB.ABS.LOWLEVEL - "Low level of abstraction"

Description: The submission identifies an issue, but its abstraction might
be too low-level to merit its own CWE entry. If it is focused on a
particular technology, framework, protocol, or function, then it might not
be unique enough to get its own CWE ID.  This might lead to modification of
an existing entry to include the additional details, or creation of a
higher-level entry for which the submission is one example. (Note: some
older CWE entries have this problem and would not be published today,
generally because they were too specific to a particular language.)

Resolution: The submission will be allowed to progress to later phases once
the more-general concept is appropriately identified and described. The
original, lower-level submission will serve as a primary example of the
more general concept.

Comments: This issue specifically calls out QR images, which is likely
to be too low-level to create a new CWE entry.

Response: <SUBMITTER SHOULD REPLY HERE>


----------

SUB.ATTACK - "Too attack-focused"

Description: The submission's name and/or description emphasizes the
attack, not the weakness. Either the submission's weakness is not
well-understood, or it is better described as an attack pattern, which may
be suitable for inclusion in CAPEC.

Resolution: An initial submission cannot progress to later phases unless it
also includes a clear weakness (i.e., is not subject to SUB.UNCLEAR).

Comments: this submission is too focused on how an adversary can phish
a user using images, more specifically QR codes. The proposed
mitigation seems to cover the core mistake - "don't allow to load
assets from untrusted sources by unauthorized actors."

Response: <SUBMITTER SHOULD REPLY HERE>


----------

SUB.GRAMMAR - "Grammar/Spelling issues"

Description: The submission has multiple occurrences of errors with
grammar, spelling, etc. that should be fixed before publication.

Resolution: The submission will not be allowed to progress to later phases
if the grammar or spelling problems are so significant that they are likely
to cause difficulty for readers to understand the weakness. If the issues
are minor, then the submission could progress.	However, no submission can
be published without grammar and spelling checks. American English is used
for spelling.

Comments: once the weakness is clear, the grammar can be changed.  The
submitter does not need to do this.

Response: <SUBMITTER SHOULD REPLY HERE>


----------


RESOLVED ISSUES:

SUB.RELREFS - "No relevant references"

Description: The submission does not provide relevant references that
explain the weakness, or the relevance is not easily found.

Resolution: The submission is not likely to progress to later phases if
there are no applicable, easily-accessible references. The submitter could
resolve by providing additional details such as a section name and quote
from the reference.  If references still are not available, the CWE Team
may decide to make an exception if no suitable reference is available.

Comments: SUB.RELREFS is applied because the submission cites
Wikipedia and CWE as references, but neither of these specifically
describes the role of images and QR codes. Please provide a reference
that specifically discusses this issue.

Response: [RESOLVED ISSUE; DO NOT CHANGE] New references provided by submitter.



TIMELINE:

Received: 2023-01-13

Ack-Receipt: 2023-01-16

Init-Review: 2023-01-17

Init-Consultation: 2024-01-16

Init-Declined: YYYY-MM-DD

Init-Accepted: YYYY-MM-DD

Det-Requested: YYYY-MM-DD

Det-Received: YYYY-MM-DD

Det-Review: YYYY-MM-DD

Det-Consultation: YYYY-MM-DD

Det-Accepted: YYYY-MM-DD

Internal-Update: YYYY-MM-DD

Final-Coord: YYYY-MM-DD

CWE-Assigned: YYYY-MM-DD

CWE-Modified: YYYY-MM-DD

CWE-Published: YYYY-MM-DD

Post-Publication: YYYY-MM-DD

Closed: YYYY-MM-DD


COMMUNICATIONS LOG:
2023-01-16 sent email
2023-01-17 sent email
2023-09-12 publish server
2023-09-20 received comment
2024-01-16 action update
2024-02-20 sent comment
