SUBMISSION COMMUNICATION ID: ES2307-f1508064

ACTION TYPE: New Entry

SUBMISSION STATUS: Init-Consultation

AFFECTED CWES:

ORIGIN: sub-server

SUBMISSION DATE: 2023-07-07 21:35:21

ISSUES: yes/active

ISSUE DETAILS: SUB.ABS.SUBTREE, SUB.ABS.LOWLEVEL, SUB.RELS

PUBTRACKER: #51

MTRACKER: #944

GITHUBUSER: mbiesiad

SUBMISSION TYPE: Software

NAME: Lack of link preview for QR code scan can leads to type of Open Redirection

DESCRIPTION:

The application performs QR code scanning but does not previewing the
target link before navigating to it.  The application should show the
target link preview for users' safety. If application immediately
redirect the user to the target site, it allows attackers for more
successful phishing attacks and similar. Showing preview of target
site is helpful and more secure for end-users.

RELATED WEAKNESSES:

   Other CWE-601

REFERENCES:


Title: Beware of Fake QR Code Scams
URL: https://www.aarp.org/money/scams-fraud/info-2021/qr-codes.html

Title: Using QR Codes In Your Business: Best Practices And Pitfalls
URL: https://www.smashingmagazine.com/2022/02/qr-codes-business-best-practices-pitfalls/

Title: How to safely scan a QR code using your smartphone
URL: https://cyberguy.com/security/how-to-safely-scan-a-qr-code-using-your-smartphone/

Title: CAPEC-98: Phishing
URL: https://capec.mitre.org/data/definitions/98.html

Title: QR code
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/QR_code


ACTIVE ISSUES:



SUB.ABS.SUBTREE - "Potential subtree issue/gap"

Description: The submission might identify an issue for which there could
be a broader gap or organizational challenge that requires analysis of CWE
subtree relationships under Research View 1000, in ways that extend beyond
creation of a parent at the next-highest level of abstraction.

Resolution: The submission cannot progress past the consultation phase
(whether initial or full) unless it is at an acceptable level of
abstraction, and the subtree issue(s) can be resolved or addressed
independently.

Comments: While there is definitely some weakness present, it is
unclear where exactly it would fit into a current CWE subtree
relationship.  This is not an open redirect because the weakness being
described is not the inclusion of user input into a redirect, but an
application with QR code scanning capabilities not previewing the URL
to the user before visiting an untrusted site.  Instead, a better
subtree would be something like "Missing user confirmation before
potentially insecure action", which aligns with CWE-356: Product UI
does not Warn User of Unsafe Actions. However, CWE-356 does not
mention prompts or confirmation dialogs, so CWE-356 would need to be
updated accordingly.  Please let us know your thoughts on this
analysis.

Response: [NO RESPONSE NEEDED; ISSUE TO BE RESOLVED LATER]

Agree. You're right.  "Missing user confirmation before
potentially insecure action", which aligns with CWE-356: Product UI
does not Warn User of Unsafe Actions" - sounds good for me.  QR codes
are becoming more and more popular, so it could be a good idea to
mention case like this.


----------

SUB.ABS.LOWLEVEL - "Low level of abstraction"

Description: The submission identifies an issue, but its abstraction might
be too low-level to merit its own CWE entry. If it is focused on a
particular technology, framework, protocol, or function, then it might not
be unique enough to get its own CWE ID.  This might lead to modification of
an existing entry to include the additional details, or creation of a
higher-level entry for which the submission is one example. (Note: some
older CWE entries have this problem and would not be published today,
generally because they were too specific to a particular language.)

Resolution: The submission will be allowed to progress to later phases once
the more-general concept is appropriately identified and described. The
original, lower-level submission will serve as a primary example of the
more general concept.

Comments: The scenario where this weakness is present is rather
specific and is likely too low-level to merit its own CWE entry.
Related to the problem described under SUB.ABS.SUBTREE, this may be
best suited as a new entry (or modification of CWE-356) along the
lines of "Missing user confirmation before potentially insecure
action", where the QR link preview could be added as an example.

Response: [NO RESPONSE NEEDED; ISSUE TO BE RESOLVED LATER]

I agree with you, could be added as an example.


----------

SUB.RELS - "Unclear relationships"

Description: The submission suggests some relationships, but the
name/description is not explained in a way in which the relationship is
relevant; or, the weakness is apparent, but it is not clear what the best
parent/child relationship(s) would be.

Resolution: The submission cannot progress to the next phase if SUB.UNCLEAR
is present. It can progress to other phases if the CWE Team agrees that the
potential relationships may require closer investigation.  The submission
cannot progress to the publication stage until clear relationships and
direct parents are identified. The CWE Team may decide to use high-level
relationships (e.g., to Pillars) if deeper problems such as SUB.ABS.SUBTREE
exist and cannot be quickly resolved.

Comments: Related to SUB.ABS.SUBTREE, it is not clear what existing
CWEs this weakness would be related to.  A potential relationship is
as a child to CWE-223: Omission of Security-relevant Information,
although if a new entry is created related to "Missing user
confirmation before potentially insecure action", it is also unclear
what relationships that new entry would have and would require closer
investigation.  The provide relationship of CWE-601: URL Redirection
to Untrusted Site ('Open Redirect') is incorrect.  Please let us know
if you agree or disagree with our assessment of the potential
relationships.

Response: [NO RESPONSE NEEDED; ISSUE TO BE RESOLVED LATER]

Agree. Thank you so much for your time and your point of view!



RESOLVED ISSUES:

----------

SUB.RELREFS - "No relevant references"

Description: The submission does not provide relevant references that
explain the weakness, or the relevance is not easily found.

Resolution: The submission is not likely to progress to later phases if
there are no applicable, easily-accessible references. The submitter could
resolve by providing additional details such as a section name and quote
from the reference.  If references still are not available, the CWE Team
may decide to make an exception if no suitable reference is available.

Comments: While the submitter provided two references, neither
describe the actual weakness.  Please respond by providing references
which describe the actual weakness.

Response: [RESOLVED ISSUE; DO NOT CHANGE.]

"Beware of Fake QR Code Scams"
https://www.aarp.org/money/scams-fraud/info-2021/qr-codes.html

"Using QR Codes In Your Business: Best Practices And Pitfalls"
https://www.smashingmagazine.com/2022/02/qr-codes-business-best-practices-pitfalls/

"How to safely scan a QR code using your smartphone"
https://cyberguy.com/security/how-to-safely-scan-a-qr-code-using-your-smartphone/


----------

SUB.UNCLEAR - "Unclear weakness"

Description: The submission's name and/or description does not clearly
identify a weakness, or it is written in a way that is vague and could
cause the submission to be incorrectly mapped to.

Resolution: An initial submission (or full submission) cannot progress past
the consultation phase until SUB.UNCLEAR is addressed.

Comments: When reading the submission, it is unclear whether this is
an issue of a lack of link preview on the application hosting the QR
code or if the issue is with applications that have QR code scanning
capabilities not previewing the link before navigating to it.  Please
confirm which situation your submission is intended for.

Response: [RESOLVED ISSUE; DO NOT CHANGE. DESCRIPTION MODIFIED.]

The issue is with applications that have QR code scanning capabilities
not previewing the link before navigating to it.

(Referring to 'an issue of a lack of link preview on the application
hosting the QR code' - in my opinion it would be impossible, because
we can consider a QR code in the bus or a train.  The responsibility
is from the scanning app in my opinion - as product gives this
feature)



TIMELINE:

Received: 2023-07-07

Ack-Receipt: 2024-01-05

Init-Review: 2024-02-20

Init-Consultation: 2024-06-27

Init-Declined: YYYY-MM-DD

Init-Accepted: YYYY-MM-DD

Det-Requested: YYYY-MM-DD

Det-Received: YYYY-MM-DD

Det-Review: YYYY-MM-DD

Det-Consultation: YYYY-MM-DD

Det-Accepted: YYYY-MM-DD

Internal-Update: YYYY-MM-DD

Final-Coord: YYYY-MM-DD

CWE-Assigned: YYYY-MM-DD

CWE-Modified: YYYY-MM-DD

CWE-Published: YYYY-MM-DD

Post-Publication: YYYY-MM-DD

Closed: YYYY-MM-DD




COMMUNICATIONS LOG:
2024-01-05 sent email
2024-02-20 sent email
2024-06-27 sent email
2024-09-20 received comment
