SUBMISSION COMMUNICATION ID: ES2405-84711fc4

ACTION TYPE: New Entry

SUBMISSION STATUS: Init-Consultation

AFFECTED CWES: 

ORIGIN: sub-server

SUBMISSION DATE: 2024-05-09 18:50:11

ISSUES: yes/active

ISSUE DETAILS: SUB.UNCLEAR, SUB.MITIGATION, SUB.OVERLAP, SUB.COORD, SUB.NEWTECH

PUBTRACKER: #109

MTRACKER: #1052

GITHUBUSER: stevechristeycoley

SUBMISSION TYPE: Software

NAME: Insufficient Input Validation in Generative AI Applications

DESCRIPTION:

The product accepts user inputs for a generative artificial intelligence
application, which can modify or bypass the original instructions resulting
in an unintended response.

Extended Description: Without sufficient validation to application user
inputs, the generative artificial intelligence model can change its
original behavior or provide unintended responses. This can be used to
reveal model secrets, output biased responses, and possibly execute system
commands, depending on application capabilities.  This flaw depends on the
fact that generative artificial intelligence models make no real
distinction between the control and data planes.

Alternate term: prompt injection. Note to user: prompt injection is an
attack and applies to multiple weaknesses, not just this one.


RELATED WEAKNESSES:

   ChildOf CWE-20

REFERENCES:

Title: Can LLMs Separate Instructions From Data? And What Do We Even Mean By That?
URL: https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.06833

Title: How to implement LLM guardrails - Example of types of LLM input validations: use cases include preventing topic derailing, detecting jailbreaks, detecting prompt injections
URL: https://cookbook.openai.com/examples/how_to_use_guardrails#1-input-guardrails

Title: Examples of types of LLM output validations u2013 note that there are a variety of use cases:
URL: https://hub.guardrailsai.com/


ACTIVE ISSUES:

SUB.UNCLEAR - "Unclear weakness"

Description: The submission's name and/or description does not clearly
identify a weakness, or it is written in a way that is vague and could
cause the submission to be incorrectly mapped to.

Resolution: An initial submission (or full submission) cannot progress past
the consultation phase until SUB.UNCLEAR is addressed.

Comments: There are 2 separate issues.  (1) Unlike most software
related weaknesses, there does not seem to be a clear understanding of
what is actually happening "under the hood," i.e., generative AI is
like a "black box" in which the specific insecure behaviors are not
clearly understood - and weaknesses in CWE are characterized by their
behaviors. The emphasis on mitigations such as "input validation" and
"adversarial" techniques, or on attack methods, further suggests this
lack of a clear understanding. This could make it difficult to create
CWE entries that provide a clear weakness.  (2) What is meant by "
generative artificial intelligence application"? Is it the model
itself or an application that makes use of a model? Or is it both?
This ambiguity could cause people to interpret this weakness in
different ways depending on if they are an app developer or a model
developer.

Response: <SUBMITTER SHOULD REPLY HERE>


----------

SUB.MITIGATION - "Too mitigation-focused"

Description: The submission's name and/or description emphasizes missing or
incorrect mitigation without clarifying the weakness.

Resolution: The submission cannot progress to later phases unless it also
includes a clear weakness (i.e., is not subject to SUB.UNCLEAR).

Comments: CWE entries typically try to stay away from emphasizing the
protection mechanism (in this case, input validation) because a
weakness can typically be addressed by multiple protection
mechanisms. Also, input validation is notoriously subject to many
variations as adversaries develop new techniques to bypass validation
steps (see CWE-184: Incomplete List of Disallowed Inputs). However, in
this case, there is such a significant emphasis on input validation by
the wider community, that the best option might be to create a new CWE
entry that is focused on improper input validation for generative AI
applications.

Response: <SUBMITTER SHOULD REPLY HERE>


----------

SUB.OVERLAP - "Duplicate/Overlap"

Description: The submission identifies a weakness, but it is a duplicate of
(or partially overlaps) existing weaknesses, indicating problems with the
submission or associated CWE entries.

Resolution: The submission cannot progress to later phases until (1) the
duplicate/overlap is understood and (2) it is clear how to resolve this
duplicate/overlap.

Comments: This new submission replaces two earlier ones,
ES2308-6b80112d (CDR #58) and ES2303-fad91ac9 (CDR #29). The two
earlier submissions have been declined and will be closed once their
information (e.g., references) has been merged into this submission.
The original submitters will receive appropriate credit in any new
entry/entries.

Response: <SUBMITTER SHOULD REPLY HERE>


----------

SUB.COORD - "Requires extensive coordination"

Description: The submission will require or is currently undergoing close
coordination, discussion, and debate between multiple parties with
different perspectives and opinions.  The communication could be taking
place in CDR itself, or outside of CDR.  As a result, it might take longer
to move the submission to later phases, although the submission is expected
to be more robust and well-defined as a result of this coordination.

Resolution: The submission cannot progress past the Init-Consultation or
Full-Consultation phases until sufficient consensus has been reached, or if
the CWE Team decides to move the submission to the next phase.

Comments: It is anticipated that this submission will be actively
discussed by the CWE AI WG and the CDR community, and there are
probably many opinions on how to handle it.

Response: <SUBMITTER SHOULD REPLY HERE>


----------

SUB.NEWTECH - "New/Emerging Technology"

Description: The submission is related to a new or emerging technology that
is not well-understood from a weakness perspective, which can cause real or
perceived gaps in CWE that require extra effort and time to analyze.
Typically, for new/emerging technologies, early vulnerability discovery and
research does not focus on root cause analysis (i.e., weakness
identification). Instead, the focus is on other areas such as attacks and
exploitation methods, technical impacts, threats, mitigations, or other
concerns.  As a result, industry understanding can be limited, effectively
requiring research or focused efforts by SMEs to understand the underlying
weaknesses.  Rapidly-changing, diverse terminology and technology can
further complicate understanding. Finally, there might not be enough
real-world examples with sufficient details from which weakness patterns
may be discovered.  For this reason, it can be difficult to determine
whether CWE entries already cover the topics of concern, and which gaps (if
any) exist.  As of May 2024, some new or emerging technologies include
AI/ML, cryptocurrency/blockchain, post-quantum cryptography, and
large-scale architectures with many components that have different trust
boundaries.  In previous years, new/emerging domains for CWE included
hardware, cloud, and ICS/OT.

Resolution: The submission cannot progress past the Init-Consultation or
Full-Consultation phases until sufficient attempts have been made to
understand the weaknesses commonly seen in new or emerging technologies, or
if the CWE Team decides to move the submission to the next phase.  Analysis
could include analyzing well-known attacks to understand the weaknesses
that enable the attacks to succeed; analysis of mitigations to understand
how the underlying weaknesses are perceived; and/or other methods.  Such
analysis might require consultation with a variety of Subject Matter
Experts (SMEs).

Comments: This submission is related to AI/ML, which is not well
understood from a weakness perspective.

Response: <SUBMITTER SHOULD REPLY HERE>


----------




RESOLVED ISSUES:



TIMELINE:

Received: 2024-05-09

Ack-Receipt: 2024-05-09

Init-Review: 2024-05-09

Init-Consultation: 2024-05-16

Init-Rejected: YYYY-MM-DD

Init-Accepted: YYYY-MM-DD

Full-Sub-Requested: YYYY-MM-DD

Full-Sub-Received: YYYY-MM-DD

Full-Review: YYYY-MM-DD

Full-Consultation: YYYY-MM-DD

Full-Accepted: YYYY-MM-DD

Production: YYYY-MM-DD

CWE-Assigned: YYYY-MM-DD

CWE-Modified: YYYY-MM-DD

Final-Coord: YYYY-MM-DD

CWE-Published: YYYY-MM-DD

Post-Publication: YYYY-MM-DD

Closed: YYYY-MM-DD




COMMUNICATIONS LOG:
2024-05-09 sent email
2024-05-09 sent email
2024-05-16 sent email
