SUBMISSION COMMUNICATION ID: ES2408-db30bcbe

ACTION TYPE: Modification

SUBMISSION STATUS: Init-Accepted

AFFECTED CWES: 

ORIGIN: sub-server

SUBMISSION DATE: 2024-08-20 01:03:10

ISSUES: yes/active

ISSUE DETAILS: SUB.ATTACK, SUB.UNCLEAR, SUB.RELS, SUB.WITHDRAWN, SUB.ACTCHANGE

PUBTRACKER: #128

MTRACKER: #1158

GITHUBUSER: Ruegg

SUBMISSION TYPE: Software

NAME: False Interaction Feedback (FIF): Improper Sequence of Feedback in User Interfaces

DESCRIPTION:

The False Interaction Feedback (FIF) vulnerability occurs when an
application improperly allows feedback or confirmation messages to be
presented without verifying the sequence of user actions that should
precede them. This weakness can be exploited by attackers to create a
misleading narrative, deceiving users into believing that an action has
been completed successfully when, in fact, it has not. This issue affects
any feedback mechanism that relies on the proper sequencing of user
interactions within web, mobile, or desktop applications.

This vulnerability should be a significant concern to developers because
poor implementation causing a FIF will allow attackers to take advantage of
the trust a user has in the target platform and use it to support a
malicious false narrative that is likely aimed at harvesting or damaging
the user's information or reputation. In addition to this, the attacker is
directly accomplishing their malicious intentions under the guise and
reputation of the vulnerable platform, causing severe reputational damage
to the business as it appears complicit in the attack. This not only
compromises user trust but also tarnishes the platform's credibility.

The technical impact of an exploited FIF vulnerability can vary widely
depending on the type of feedback provided by the vulnerable target and the
narrative chosen by the attacker, but when exploited will likely result in
unauthorized disclosure of sensitive information, compromise of user
credentials, or installation of malicious software.

Consider a scenario where a website has the following flow for a password
reset:

1. The user navigates to `good.com/password/reset/`.

2. The front-end page displays fields for entering the old and new
passwords. Upon submission, the form sends a POST request to
`api.good.com/v2/change-password`.

3. If the password change is successful, the server responds with a
redirection header that directs the user to
`good.com/password/change-success/`, where they see a confirmation message
on the screen: "Your password has been changed!"

If `good.com/password/change-success/` is accessible to any end-user by
simply visiting the page without actually resetting their password, then
this flow is vulnerable to FIF.

In this scenario, an attacker could set up a malicious site that mimics the
legitimate password reset process and then redirects users to
`good.com/password/change-success/`. Because the feedback page appears to
be part of the trusted platform, users will not see any warning signs or
inconsistencies that would otherwise prompt them to verify their password
change on the legitimate site.

An arguably more malicious example of exploiting a FIF could be for the
purpose of installing malware. Many websites that offer software will show
feedback for the download, such as "Thank you for your download!" which
resides on its own page and is independent of the logic that prompts the
download itself. Because of this, an attacker can create a malicious
website posing as a tool and may include text such as "Requires
GoodSoftware - Download Here" with a hyperlink to the alleged tool. When
the victim clicks this, the malicious site will actually download the
malware it hosts on its own servers and then redirect to GoodSoftware's
"Thank you for your download!" page. Because GoodSoftware did not implement
a flow such that the feedback for the download is only shown with the logic
that downloads their legitimate file, attackers can use their brand image
and reputation to install malware on victims' machines.

There are many variations of this issue that can be taken advantage of,
such as:
- Payment confirmations
- File upload confirmations

While the examples provided focus on using FIF at the end of an attack, FIF
can be leveraged at any stage to reinforce the attacker's narrative. For
instance, a malicious site could use an iFrame + FIF to display a
legitimate-looking notice, possibly linked to a logged-in session, midway
through the attack, further deceiving the end-user.

Additionally, FIF is not limited to websites; its impact extends to
programs and mobile applications that use custom URL protocols or deep
links.

RELATED WEAKNESSES:

   ChildOf CWE-841
   Other CWE-451

REFERENCES:

Title: Discovering a New Vulnerability Type: False Interaction Feedback (FIF) and Its Implications
URL: https://blog.andreruegg.com//posts/2024-08-18-identifying-a-new-vulnerability-type-fif/
Author: Andre Ruegg
Date: 2024-08-18


ACTIVE ISSUES:

SUB.WITHDRAWN - "Withdrawn Submission"

Description: The original submitter has withdrawn from active participation
in further development of the submission, or the submitter has not
responded to multiple requests for feedback. The submitter's withdrawal may
be due to reasons such as lack of time, changing priorities, technical
challenges in resolving issues with the submission, email address or other
contact information that is no longer valid, etc.

Resolution: The CWE Team must decide what to do with the submission in its
current state, such as: (1) decline or close the submission outright; or
(2) continue to work independently with the submission. For submissions
that are ultimately integrated into CWE, the CWE Team will decide which
credits to provide - based on the public information in the submission - or
credit an "anonymous contributor."

Comments: The submitter did not reply to requests for feedback on the
currently active issues. The CWE Team will progress with analyzing
this submission and integrating it into CWE.

Response: <SUBMITTER SHOULD REPLY HERE>

----------

SUB.ATTACK - "Too attack-focused"

Description: The submission's name and/or description emphasizes the
attack, not the weakness. Either the submission's weakness is not
well-understood, or it is better described as an attack pattern, which may
be suitable for inclusion in CAPEC.

Resolution: An initial submission cannot progress to later phases unless it
also includes a clear weakness (i.e., is not subject to SUB.UNCLEAR).

Comments: This submission largely focuses on the attack described as
"False Interaction Feedback" but does not sufficiently describe the
inherent weakness that allows this attack vector to exist.  The
submission needs to be more clear about what weakness is
occurring. (See SUB.UNCLEAR below.)  Any feedback is welcome.

Response: <SUBMITTER SHOULD REPLY HERE>

----------

SUB.UNCLEAR - "Unclear weakness"

Description: The submission's name and/or description does not clearly
identify a weakness, or it is written in a way that is vague and could
cause the submission to be incorrectly mapped to.

Resolution: A submission cannot progress past the consultation phase until
SUB.UNCLEAR is addressed.

Comments: Related to the above submission problem for SUB.ATTACK, the
submission does not make the weakness clear in the description due to
being too attack focused.  It is important to identify and be explicit
about what the root weakness is that allows for FIF to occur.

Instead of creating a new entry, we plan to treat FIF as an
attack-oriented example of CWE-841: "Improper Enforcement of
Behavioral Workflow", which we will regard as the primary weakness in
which FIF will be mentioned. This is because the feedback is made
available at the wrong time; to quote an example provided in this
submission, the software "did not implement a flow such that the
feedback for the download is only shown with the logic that downloads
their legitimate file." Also, the submitter's reference states "FIF
involves the UI providing accurate and expected feedback, but this
feedback is presented outside its intended sequence or context within
the application... This can only be caused by a developer failing to
secure feedback flows or ensure proper sequencing."

The CWE Team believes that the underlying weakness could, in some
cases, be an example of CWE-425: Direct Request ('Forced Browsing') -
a missing or incorrect authorization issue in which success pages
should not be displayed unless a logged-in user accesses the page just
after accomplishing an action. While it appears that FIF (as written
as an attack) is always part of CWE-841, only some direct requests are
an example of CWE-841, so there is not a parent/child relationship
between CWE-425 and CWE-841.

Any feedback is welcome, especially with an improved description that
is more focused on the weakness that enables the attack.

Response: <SUBMITTER SHOULD REPLY HERE>

----------

SUB.RELS - "Unclear relationships"

Description: The submission suggests some relationships, but the
name/description is not explained in a way in which the relationship is
relevant; or, the weakness is apparent, but it is not clear what the best
parent/child relationship(s) would be.

Resolution: The submission cannot progress to the next phase if SUB.UNCLEAR
is present. It can progress to other phases if the CWE Team agrees that the
potential relationships may require closer investigation.  The submission
cannot progress to the Publication stage until clear relationships and
direct parents are identified. The CWE Team may decide to use high-level
relationships (e.g., to Pillars) if deeper problems such as SUB.ABS.SUBTREE
exist and cannot be quickly resolved.

Comments: Because the weakness was not clearly specified in the
original submission, it was difficult to tell if the proposed
relationships were correct. As mentioned in SUB.UNCLEAR, we are now
treating this weakness as an example of CWE-841, with some possible
relationships to CWE-425.

Regarding original relationships provided by the submitter:

- The submitter originally proposed CWE-602: "Client-Side Enforcement
  of Server-Side Security" as a relationship, but it only seems
  tangentially related, and the client-side enforcement would likely
  be related to behavioral order.
- The submitter also proposed CWE-441: "Unintended Proxy or
  Intermediary ('Confused Deputy')" but this also seems tangential to
  the concept of the attack, and it does not appear to be a fitting
  parent.

Any feedback is welcome.

Response: <SUBMITTER SHOULD REPLY HERE>

----------

SUB.ACTCHANGE - "Change in action for submission"

Description: The submission's action needs to change, e.g., from "New
Entry" to "Modification," or vice versa. This potentially requires changes
to the kinds of information that will need to be provided.

Resolution: The submission cannot progress to Stage 3 (Content-Generation)
until the informational needs are addressed.

Comments: As mentioned in previous explanations, we will treat FIF as
an example in CWE-841 and possibly CWE-425 - that is, a Modification,
instead of a New Entry.

Response: <SUBMITTER SHOULD REPLY HERE>


RESOLVED ISSUES:



TIMELINE:

Received: 2024-08-20

Ack-Receipt: 2024-12-09

Init-Review: 2025-04-01

Init-Consultation: 2025-06-24

Init-Declined: YYYY-MM-DD

Init-Accepted: 2026-10-05

Det-Requested: YYYY-MM-DD

Det-Received: YYYY-MM-DD

Det-Review: YYYY-MM-DD

Det-Consultation: YYYY-MM-DD

Det-Accepted: YYYY-MM-DD

Internal-Update: YYYY-MM-DD

CWE-Assigned: YYYY-MM-DD

CWE-Modified: YYYY-MM-DD

Final-Coord: YYYY-MM-DD

CWE-Published: YYYY-MM-DD

Post-Publication: YYYY-MM-DD

Closed: YYYY-MM-DD




COMMUNICATIONS LOG:
2024-12-09 sent email
2025-04-01 sent email
2025-06-24 sent email
2025-12-22 sent email
2026-05-15 sent email
2026-10-05 sent email
