SUBMISSION COMMUNICATION ID: ES2608-a21c00a6

ACTION TYPE: New Entry

SUBMISSION STATUS: Ack-Receipt

AFFECTED CWES: 

ORIGIN: sub-server

SUBMISSION DATE: 2026-08-10 11:21:56

ISSUES: not-analyzed

ISSUE DETAILS: 

PUBTRACKER: #213

MTRACKER: #1362

GITHUBUSER: 

SUBMISSION TYPE: Software

NAME: Missing Revalidation of Attested State Before Security-Sensitive Use

DESCRIPTION:

The product performs a security-sensitive action based on an attestation
that correctly proved a property of a system or resource at an earlier
time, but does not ensure that the attested property still holds when the
action is performed.

Attestation is commonly used to establish properties such as the software
measurement of a remote device, the code or configuration of a trusted
execution environment, or another integrity-relevant state. A verifier may
correctly authenticate the evidence, validate its signature, and confirm
that the reported measurement satisfies policy. However, those checks
establish what was true when the measurement or evidence was produced. They
do not necessarily guarantee that a mutable property remains unchanged
until a later security-sensitive use.

The weakness occurs when the product treats a previously successful
attestation as continuing proof of current state even though the attested
state can change between the check and the protected operation. The
attestation may be genuine, correctly signed, associated with the correct
attester, and still within its permitted validity period. The mistake is
the missing temporal binding between the property that was checked and the
operation that relies on that property.

For example, a secret-management service may verify that a remote execution
environment has an approved code measurement and then authorize release of
a secret. If relevant software or mutable state can be modified after
measurement but before the secret is released or used, the relying party
can act on a security property that is no longer true.

This is a time-of-check/time-of-use problem specialized to attested state.
Remote-attestation research has demonstrated that malicious software can be
present between attestations or that software state can differ at time of
use even though a legitimate measurement was obtained at time of check. The
attestation mechanism can therefore operate correctly while the relying
product makes an unsafe assumption about how long the attested property
remains valid.

This weakness is distinct from simple capture-replay. Replay can be
prevented by binding evidence to a fresh verifier challenge, but challenge
freshness only establishes that the evidence belongs to a particular
attestation exchange. It does not, by itself, prove that mutable measured
state cannot change after measurement and before the protected operation.
Likewise, this weakness does not require an expired token, invalid
signature, or forged evidence. The assertion can be authentic and fresh
while the underlying property has ceased to hold.

Consequences depend on the property and protected action. A product may
release secrets to an environment whose trusted state has changed, permit
privileged operations based on obsolete integrity evidence, accept output
from software that no longer matches the approved measurement, or otherwise
bypass a protection mechanism based on a once-true property.

A secure design must ensure that the attested state remains applicable to
the security-sensitive use. Depending on the platform and threat model,
this can involve binding fresh evidence to the specific session or
operation, minimizing the interval between measurement and use,
re-attesting when relevant state can change, invalidating cached trust
decisions after state-changing events, using continuous or runtime
attestation, or using mechanisms that detect or prevent modification of the
attested state between verification and use.

For example, vulnerable logic may verify an approved measurement once and
cache the result for a session:

tok = verify_attestation(evidence)
if tok.measurement == APPROVED:
session.trusted = True

# Relevant state can change here.

if session.trusted:
release_secret()

The error is not that verify_attestation() accepted bad evidence. It
accepted evidence that was correct when generated. The error is that the
later protected operation relies on that earlier result without
establishing that the property still holds.

A stronger design treats an attestation decision as having a lifetime tied
to the state it describes and the operation it authorizes. Fresh challenges
should be used to prevent replay, but systems whose attested state can
change after measurement also require a mechanism to close or sufficiently
bound the check-to-use window.

This weakness should not be used for every stale signed token or ordinary
expiration error. It applies when a security decision relies on an attested
property of mutable state, the property can change after it is checked, and
the product fails to preserve or re-establish the relationship between the
checked state and the state that exists when the protected action occurs.


RELATED WEAKNESSES:

   ChildOf CWE-367

REFERENCES:

Title: On the TOCTOU Problem in Remote Attestation
URL: https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/3460120.3484532

Title: A TOCTOU Attack on DICE Attestation
URL: https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/3508398.3511507

Title: TOCTOU Resilient Attestation for IoT Networks
URL: https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/3715014.3722057


ACTIVE ISSUES:



RESOLVED ISSUES:



TIMELINE:

Received: 2026-08-10

Ack-Receipt: 2026-08-17

Init-Review: YYYY-MM-DD

Init-Consultation: YYYY-MM-DD

Init-Declined: YYYY-MM-DD

Init-Accepted: YYYY-MM-DD

Det-Requested: YYYY-MM-DD

Det-Received: YYYY-MM-DD

Det-Review: YYYY-MM-DD

Det-Consultation: YYYY-MM-DD

Det-Accepted: YYYY-MM-DD

Internal-Update: YYYY-MM-DD

CWE-Assigned: YYYY-MM-DD

CWE-Modified: YYYY-MM-DD

Final-Coord: YYYY-MM-DD

CWE-Published: YYYY-MM-DD

Post-Publication: YYYY-MM-DD

Closed: YYYY-MM-DD




COMMUNICATIONS LOG:
