SUBMISSION COMMUNICATION ID: ES2602-bd8e9372

ACTION TYPE: New Entry

SUBMISSION STATUS: Init-Consultation

AFFECTED CWES: 

ORIGIN: sub-server

SUBMISSION DATE: 2026-02-24 18:42:52

ISSUES: yes/active

ISSUE DETAILS: SUB.ATTACK, SUB.OVERLAP, SUB.ABS.MULTWEAK, SUB.RELS, SUB.RELREFS

PUBTRACKER: #182

MTRACKER: #1312

GITHUBUSER: bugmithlegend

SUBMISSION TYPE: Software

NAME: Improper Authentication State Lifecycle Handling

DESCRIPTION:

Systems issuing encrypted or signed authentication artifacts, such as
tokens or verification state, may improperly process these artifacts beyond
their intended session lifecycle. Valid authentication state can be reused
across sessions, processed without proper account or session binding, and
trigger deterministic corruption of account state. This results in
persistent authentication failures, verification loops, and permanent
denial of service for high-value accounts. The weakness originates from
improper lifecycle enforcement, cross-session state processing, and flaws
in the authentication state machine logic, creating availability and
integrity impacts without granting unauthorized access or exposing
credentials.

RELATED WEAKNESSES:

   Other CWE-287
   Other CWE-294
   Other CWE-613

REFERENCES:

Title: IASLH Research Documentation (includes everything)
URL: https://mega.nz/folder/jIsVUDrD#Uvfb83vigk2me-QjyH7SbQ


ACTIVE ISSUES:

SUB.ATTACK - "Too attack-focused"

Description: The submission's name and/or description emphasizes the
attack, not the weakness. Either the submission's weakness is not
well-understood, or it is better described as an attack pattern, which may
be suitable for inclusion in CAPEC.

Resolution: An initial submission cannot progress to later phases unless it
also includes a clear weakness (i.e., is not subject to SUB.UNCLEAR).

Comments: The submission describes an attack scenario in which an authentication
artifact is able to be used across multiple sessions.  This leads to many stated
impacts, although the submissions seems more focused on impact than the root
cause weakness.  It appears that the root cause weakness being described is that
an authentication artifact that should be tied to an authenticated session is
not invalidated when the session is expired.  The attached reference also claims
that this is a combination of several weaknesses, some of which are described in
SUB.ABS.MULTWEAK below.  The combination of several weaknesses to carry out an
attack does not warrant an individual CWE, rather each weakness in the chain
would have its own CWE.  Please respond with a more clear
indication of the weakness being submitted.  Are we correct to assume that the
weakness is discussing how authentication state is not being invalidated
correctly?

Response: <SUBMITTER SHOULD REPLY HERE>


----------

SUB.OVERLAP - "Duplicate/Overlap"

Description: The submission identifies a weakness, but it is a duplicate of
(or partially overlaps) existing weaknesses or other submissions,
indicating problems with the submission or associated CWE entries.

Resolution: The submission cannot progress to later phases until (1) the
duplicate/overlap is understood and (2) it is clear how to resolve this
duplicate/overlap.

Comments: Although the exact weakness being submitted is not 100% clear at this
time as discussed in SUB.ATTACK, the CWE Team believes the submission is
targetted towards session authentication information not being properly
invalidated when the session has expired.  This partially overlaps 
CWE-613: Insufficient Session Expiration.  As stated in the notes for CWE-613,
this CWE is being considered for deprecation.  It is also stated that "this CWE
has also been used for situations in which a session is not fully invalidated or
terminated upon logout, which is a different weakness than the original
intention for this entry; however, as of CWE 4.19.1, there is no entry that
covers this other variation.".  It would appear that this matches the situation
being described by the submission.  A possible path forward would be to
deprecate CWE-613 and create a new entry (or multiple entries) related to
session management and expiration.  Do you think that this approach
would properly address the original submission?

Response: <SUBMITTER SHOULD REPLY HERE>


----------

SUB.ABS.MULTWEAK - "Multiple weaknesses"

Description: The submission describes or suggests multiple independent
weaknesses that each might deserve a separate CWE ID.

Resolution: The submission cannot progress past the consultation phase
until the number of relevant weaknesses is identified. If there are
multiple weaknesses, separate names and descriptions are needed.

Comments: The attached reference for this submission makes a claim that
"Existing entries fail to capture the combination of cross-session valid token
processing, deterministic account state corruption, and authentication lifecycle
mismanagement".  The first described situation would be covered by the proposed
new entry related to improper session artifact expiration or revocation.  The
second situation is an impact that results from the first described weakness.
The third situation appears to be a general term that would also encompass the
newly proposed weakness for improper session artifact expiration or revocation.
The submission also gives mulitple related weaknesses, although describes them
as other relationships.  It is assumed that the submitter views these as
standalone weaknesses that together result in the impact being described.  More
clarification may be useful from the submitter here. These CWEs are: 

1. CWE-287: Improper Authentication

2. CWE-294: Authentication Bypass by Capture-replay 

3. CWE-613: Insufficient Session Expiration 

CWE-287 could be useful as a parent to the proposed new entry.
CWE-294 could be considered as part of a chain, although is separate
from what is being proposed.  The third weakness, CWE-613, is already
discussed in SUB.OVERLAP and would be replaced by the new entry.  If
you still believe there is a weakness that is not covered
by CWE and would not be covered by the proposed weakness in SUB.ATTACK
and SUB.OVERLAP, please explain this in your response to this submission
problem.

Response: <SUBMITTER SHOULD REPLY HERE>


----------

SUB.RELS - "Unclear relationships"

Description: The submission suggests some relationships, but the
name/description is not explained in a way in which the relationship is
relevant; or, the weakness is apparent, but it is not clear what the best
parent/child relationship(s) would be.

Resolution: The submission cannot progress to the next phase if SUB.UNCLEAR
is present. It can progress to other phases if the CWE Team agrees that the
potential relationships may require closer investigation.  The submission
cannot progress to the Publication stage until clear relationships and
direct parents are identified. The CWE Team may decide to use high-level
relationships (e.g., to Pillars) if deeper problems such as SUB.ABS.SUBTREE
exist and cannot be quickly resolved.

Comments: If we were to proceed with the deprecation of CWE-613 and introduce a
new CWE entry related to improper session artifact revocation, we would need to
find a suitable parent.  The current parent of CWE-613 is CWE-672: Operation on
a Resource after Expiration or Release.  This would not apply, because the new
entry is not about using the resource after expiration, but about properly
expiring the resource in the first place.  Because the new entry would be
related to authentication, perhaps a CWE in the subtree for CWE-287 would be
suitable as a parent.  The new entry could be suitable as a child under
CWE-1390: Weak Authentication.  The suitable parent can be decided in later
stages.  Please please give your thoughts on relationships
as a response to this submission problem.

Response: <SUBMITTER SHOULD REPLY HERE>


----------

SUB.RELREFS - "No relevant references"

Description: The submission does not provide relevant references that
explain the weakness, or the relevance is not easily found.

Resolution: The submission is not likely to progress to later phases if
there are no applicable, easily-accessible references. The submitter could
resolve by providing additional details such as a section name and quote
from the reference.  If no suitable references can be found, the CWE Team
may decide to make an exception.

Comments: You provided detailed writeups related to the issue, but
access could be blocked to the only reference you cited, since it is
on a site related to online storage or backups, and it requires a
password. This is not sufficiently accessible as a reference to
include in CWE. Let us know if you are willing to publish these
references in a way that is more easily accessible to the general
public and to CWE users.

Response: <SUBMITTER SHOULD REPLY HERE>


----------



RESOLVED ISSUES:



TIMELINE:

Received: 2026-02-24

Ack-Receipt: 2026-03-02

Init-Review: 2026-03-26

Init-Consultation: 2026-10-01

Init-Declined: YYYY-MM-DD

Init-Accepted: YYYY-MM-DD

Det-Requested: YYYY-MM-DD

Det-Received: YYYY-MM-DD

Det-Review: YYYY-MM-DD

Det-Consultation: YYYY-MM-DD

Det-Accepted: YYYY-MM-DD

Internal-Update: YYYY-MM-DD

CWE-Assigned: YYYY-MM-DD

CWE-Modified: YYYY-MM-DD

Final-Coord: YYYY-MM-DD

CWE-Published: YYYY-MM-DD

Post-Publication: YYYY-MM-DD

Closed: YYYY-MM-DD




COMMUNICATIONS LOG:
2026-03-02 sent email
2026-03-26 sent email
2026-10-01 sent email
